Words: 11:The Project Gutenberg eBook, Three Years in Europe, by William Wells
Words: 3:Brown, et al
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 14:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
Words: 12:almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
Words: 11:re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
Words: 7:with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 5:Title: Three Years in Europe
Words: 9:       Places I Have Seen and People I Have Met
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 4:Author: William Wells Brown
Words: 0:
Words: 7:Release Date: May 15, 2005  [eBook #15830]
Words: 0:
Words: 2:Language: English
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 10:***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THREE YEARS IN EUROPE***
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 11:E-text prepared by Suzanne Shell, Michael Punch, and the Project Gutenberg
Words: 9:Online Distributed Proofreading Team from page images generously made
Words: 8:available by the Bibliothèque nationale de France (http://gallica.bnf.fr)
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 10:Note: Images of the original pages are available through the
Words: 5:      Bibliothèque nationale de France. See
Words: 1:      http://visualiseur.bnf.fr/Visualiseur?Destination=Gallica&O=NUMM-103524
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 4:THREE YEARS IN EUROPE;
Words: 0:
Words: 10:Or, Places I Have Seen and People I Have Met
Words: 0:
Words: 1:by
Words: 0:
Words: 3:W. WELLS BROWN
Words: 3:A Fugitive Slave.
Words: 0:
Words: 1:With
Words: 0:
Words: 5:A MEMOIR OF THE AUTHOR
Words: 0:
Words: 1:by
Words: 0:
Words: 3:WILLIAM FARMER, Esq.
Words: 0:
Words: 1:London:
Words: 6:Charles Gilpin, 5, Bishopsgate Street, Without.
Words: 4:Edinburgh: Oliver and Boyd.
Words: 0:
Words: 1:1852
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 4:[Illustration: W. Wells Brown.]
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 1:CONTENTS.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 7:MEMOIR OF WILLIAM WELLS BROWN,                           _Page_ ix-xxix
Words: 0:
Words: 3:AUTHOR'S PREFACE,                                            xxxi-xxxii
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER I.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:Departure from Boston--the Passengers--Halifax--the Passage--
Words: 5:First Sight of Land--Liverpool,                                     1-9
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER II.
Words: 0:
Words: 7:Trip to Ireland--Dublin--Her Majesty's Visit--Illumination of the
Words: 7:City--the Birth-Place of Thomas Moore--a Reception,                9-21
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER III.
Words: 0:
Words: 6:Departure from Ireland--London--Trip to Paris--Paris--The Peace
Words: 7:Congress: first day--Church of the Madeleine--Column Vendome--
Words: 3:the French,                                                       21-38
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER IV.
Words: 0:
Words: 6:Versailles--The Palace--Second Session of the Congress--Mr.
Words: 5:Cobden--Henry Vincent--M. Girardin--Abbe Duguerry--Victor Hugo:
Words: 3:his Speech,                                                       38-49
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER V.
Words: 0:
Words: 8:M. de Tocqueville's Grand Soiree--Madame de Tocqueville--Visit of
Words: 6:the Peace Delegates to Versailles--The Breakfast--Speechmaking--
Words: 5:The Trianons--Waterworks--St. Cloud--The Fete,                    50-59
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER VI.
Words: 0:
Words: 7:The Tuileries--Place de la Concorde--The Egyptian Obelisk--Palais
Words: 9:Royal--Residence of Robespierre--A Visit to the Room in which
Words: 8:Charlotte Corday killed Marat--Church de Notre Dame--Palais de
Words: 6:Justice--Hotel des Invalids--National Assembly--The Elysee,       59-73
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER VII.
Words: 0:
Words: 7:The Chateau at Versailles--Private Apartments of Marie
Words: 7:Antoinette--The Secret Door--Paintings of Raphael and David--
Words: 6:Arc de Triomphe--Beranger the Poet,                               73-82
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER VIII.
Words: 0:
Words: 4:Departure from Paris--Boulogne--Folkstone--London--Geo. Thompson,
Words: 6:Esq., M.P.--Hartwell House--Dr. Lee--Cottage of the
Words: 6:Peasant--Windsor Castle--Residence of Wm. Penn--England's First
Words: 6:Welcome--Heath Lodge--The Bank of England,                       83-104
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER IX.
Words: 0:
Words: 7:The British Museum--A Portrait--Night Reading--A Dark Day--A
Words: 11:Fugitive Slave on the Streets of London--A Friend in the time
Words: 3:of need,                                                        104-116
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER X.
Words: 0:
Words: 6:The Whittington Club--Louis Blanc--Street Amusements--Tower of
Words: 4:London--Westminster Abbey--National Gallery--Dante--Sir Joshua
Words: 2:Reynolds,                                                       117-134
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XI.
Words: 0:
Words: 4:York-Minster--The Great Organ--Newcastle-on-Tyne--The Labouring
Words: 5:Classes--The American Slave--Sheffield--James Montgomery,       134-145
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XII.
Words: 0:
Words: 8:Kirkstall Abbey--Mary the Maid of the Inn--Newstead Abbey:
Words: 8:Residence of Lord Byron--Parish Church of Hucknall--Burial Place
Words: 7:of Lord Byron--Bristol: "Cook's Folly"--Chepstow Castle and
Words: 4:Abbey--Tintern Abbey--Redcliffe Church,                         145-162
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XIII.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:Edinburgh--The Royal Institute--Scott's Monument--John Knox's
Words: 6:Pulpit--Temperance Meeting--Glasgow--Great Meeting in the City
Words: 2:Hall,                                                           163-176
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XIV.
Words: 0:
Words: 7:Stirling--Dundee--Dr. Dick--Geo. Gilfillan--Dr. Dick at home,   177-184
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XV.
Words: 0:
Words: 6:Melrose Abbey--Abbotsford--Dryburgh Abbey--The Grave of Sir
Words: 7:Walter Scott--Hawick--Gretna Green--Visit to the Lakes,         185-196
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XVI.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:Miss Martineau--"The Knoll"--"Ridal Mount"--"The Dove's
Words: 8:Nest"--Grave of William Wordsworth, Esq.--The English Peasant,  196-207
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XVII.
Words: 0:
Words: 7:A Day in the Crystal Palace,                                    207-219
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XVIII.
Words: 0:
Words: 7:The London Peace Congress--Meeting of Fugitive Slaves--
Words: 7:Temperance Demonstration--The Great Exhibition: Last Visit,     219-226
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XIX.
Words: 0:
Words: 8:Oxford--Martyrs' Monument--Cost of the Burning of the Martyrs--
Words: 8:The Colleges--Dr. Pusey--Energy, the Secret of Success,         227-235
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XX.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:Fugitive Slaves in England,                                     236-250
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XXI.
Words: 0:
Words: 6:A Chapter on American Slavery,                                  250-273
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XXII.
Words: 0:
Words: 6:A Narrative of American Slavery,                                273-305
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XXIII.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:Aberdeen--Passage by Steamer--Edinburgh--Visit to the
Words: 5:College--William and Ellen Craft,                               305-312
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 5:MEMOIR OF WILLIAM WELLS BROWN.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 15:A narrative of the life of the author of the present work has been most
Words: 10:extensively circulated in England and America. The present memoir will,
Words: 10:therefore, simply comprise a brief sketch of the most interesting
Words: 12:portion of Mr. Brown's history while in America, together with a short
Words: 10:account of his subsequent cisatlantic career. The publication of his
Words: 13:adventures as a slave, and as a fugitive from slavery in his native
Words: 11:land, has been most valuable in sustaining a sound anti-slavery spirit
Words: 11:in Great Britain. His honourable reception in Europe may be equally
Words: 11:serviceable in America, as another added to the many practical protests
Words: 11:previously entered from this side of the Atlantic, against the absolute
Words: 13:bondage of three millions and a quarter of the human race, and the
Words: 9:semi-slavery involved in the social and political proscription of
Words: 7:600,000 free coloured people in that country.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:William Wells Brown was born at Lexington, in the state of Kentucky, as
Words: 15:nearly as he can tell in the autumn of 1814. In the Southern States of
Words: 13:America, the pedigree and age of a horse or a dog are carefully
Words: 15:preserved, but no record is kept of the birth of a slave. All that Mr.
Words: 12:Brown knows upon the subject is traditionally, that he was born "about
Words: 12:corn-cutting time" of that year. His mother was a slave named Elizabeth,
Words: 13:the property of Dr. Young, a physician. His father was George Higgins, a
Words: 4:relative of his master.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:The name given to our author at his birth, was "William"--no second or
Words: 12:surname being permitted to a slave. While William was an infant, Dr.
Words: 12:Young removed to Missouri, where, in addition to his profession as a
Words: 7:physician, he carried on the--to European notions--incongruous
Words: 11:avocations of miller, merchant, and farmer. Here William was employed as
Words: 14:a house servant, while his mother was engaged as a field hand. One of
Words: 11:his first bitter experiences of the cruelties of slavery, was his
Words: 12:witnessing the infliction of ten lashes upon the bare back of his
Words: 12:mother, for being a few minutes behind her time at the field--a
Words: 10:punishment inflicted with one of those peculiar whips in the
Words: 12:construction of which, so as to produce the greatest amount of torture,
Words: 12:those whom Lord Carlisle has designated "the chivalry of the South" find
Words: 4:scope for their ingenuity.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:Dr. Young subsequently removed to a farm near St. Louis, in the same
Words: 12:State. Having been elected a Member of the Legislature, he devolved the
Words: 12:management of his farm upon an overseer, having, what to his unhappy
Words: 12:victims must have been the ironical name of "Friend Haskall." The mother
Words: 13:and child were now separated. The boy was levied to a Virginian named
Words: 12:Freeland, who bore the military title of Major, and carried on the
Words: 12:plebeian business of a publican. This man was of an extremely brutal
Words: 10:disposition, and treated his slaves with most refined cruelty. His
Words: 9:favourite punishment, which he facetiously called "Virginian play," was
Words: 12:to flog his slaves severely, and then expose their lacerated flesh to
Words: 11:the smoke of tobacco stems, causing the most exquisite agony. William
Words: 13:complained to his owner of the treatment of Freeland, but, as in almost
Words: 13:all similar instances, the appeal was in vain. At length he was induced
Words: 12:to attempt an escape, not from that love of liberty which subsequently
Words: 11:became with him an unconquerable passion, but simply to avoid the
Words: 12:cruelty to which he was habitually subjected. He took refuge in the
Words: 12:woods, but was hunted and "traced" by the blood-hounds of a Major
Words: 10:O'Fallon, another of "the chivalry of the South," whose gallant
Words: 11:occupation was that of keeping an establishment for the hire of
Words: 11:ferocious dogs with which to hunt fugitive slaves. The young slave
Words: 11:received a severe application of "Virginia play" for his attempt to
Words: 9:escape. Happily the military publican soon afterwards failed in
Words: 11:business, and William found a better master and a more congenial
Words: 10:employment with Captain Cilvers, on board a steam-boat plying between
Words: 14:St. Louis and Galena. At the close of the sailing season he was levied
Words: 14:to an hotel-keeper, a native of a free state, but withal of a class
Words: 12:which exist north as well as south--a most inveterate negro hater. At
Words: 9:this period of William's history, a circumstance occurred, which,
Words: 14:although a common incident in the lives of slaves, is one of the keenest
Words: 12:trials they have to endure--the breaking up of his family circle. Her
Words: 12:master wanted money, and he therefore sold Elizabeth and six of her
Words: 9:children to seven different purchasers. The family relationship is
Words: 11:almost the only solace of slavery. While the mother, brothers, and
Words: 13:sisters are permitted to meet together in the negro hut after the hour
Words: 10:of labour, the slaves are comparatively content with their oppressed
Words: 12:condition; but deprive them of this, the only privilege which they as
Words: 13:human beings are possessed of, and nothing is left but the animal part
Words: 11:of their nature--the living soul is extinguished within them. With them
Words: 10:there is nothing to love--everything to hate. They feel themselves
Words: 13:degraded to the condition not only of mere animals, but of the most
Words: 5:ill-used animals in the creation.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:Not needing the services of his young relative, Dr. Young hired him to
Words: 12:the proprietor of the _St. Louis Times_, the best master William ever
Words: 12:had in slavery. Here he gained the scanty amount of education he
Words: 11:acquired at the South. This kind treatment by his editorial master
Words: 12:appears to have engendered in the heart of William a consciousness of
Words: 13:his own manhood, and led him into the commission of an offence similar
Words: 8:to that perpetrated by Frederick Douglass, under similar
Words: 9:circumstances--the assertion of the right of self-defence. He gallantly
Words: 11:defended himself against the attacks of several boys older and bigger
Words: 13:than himself, but in so doing was guilty of the unpardonable sin of
Words: 13:lifting his hand against white lads; and the father of one of them,
Words: 13:therefore, deemed it consistent with his manhood to lay in wait for the
Words: 14:young slave, and beat him over the head with a heavy cane till the
Words: 13:blood gushed from his nose and ears. From the effects of that treatment
Words: 16:the poor lad was confined to his bed for five weeks, at the end of which
Words: 11:time he found that, to his personal sufferings, were superadded the
Words: 13:calamity of the loss of the best master he ever had in slavery.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:His next employment was that of waiter on board a steam-boat plying on
Words: 10:the Mississippi. Here his occupation again was pleasant, and his
Words: 12:treatment good; but the freedom of action enjoyed by the passengers in
Words: 9:travelling whithersoever they pleased, contrasted strongly in his mind
Words: 14:with his own deprivation of will as a slave. The natural result of this
Words: 11:comparison was an intense desire for freedom--a feeling which was never
Words: 10:afterwards eradicated from his breast. This love of liberty was,
Words: 10:however, so strongly counteracted by affection for his mother and
Words: 12:sisters, that although urgently entreated by one of the latter to take
Words: 11:advantage of his present favourable opportunity for escape, he would not
Words: 15:bring himself to do so at the expense of a separation for life from his
Words: 2:beloved relatives.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:His period of living on board the steamer having expired, he was again
Words: 12:remitted to field labour, under a burning sun. From that labour, from
Words: 13:which he suffered severely, he was soon removed to the lighter and more
Words: 11:agreeable occupation of house-waiter to his master. About this time Dr.
Words: 10:Young, in the conventional phraseology of the locality, "got religion."
Words: 13:The fruit of his alleged spiritual gain, was the loss of many material
Words: 11:comforts to the slaves. Destitute of the resources of education, they
Words: 12:were in the habit of employing their otherwise unoccupied minds on the
Words: 13:Sunday in fishing and other harmless pursuits; these were now all put an
Words: 14:end to. The Sabbath became a season of dread to William: he was required
Words: 14:to drive the family to and from the church, a distance of four miles
Words: 12:either way; and while they attended to the salvation of their souls
Words: 12:within the building, he was compelled to attend to the horses without
Words: 12:it, standing by them during divine service under a burning sun, or
Words: 12:drizzling rain. Although William did not get the religion of his master,
Words: 11:he acquired a family passion which appears to have been strongly
Words: 10:intermixed with the devotional exercises of the household of Dr.
Words: 12:Young--a love of sweet julep. In the evening, the slaves were required
Words: 11:to attend family worship. Before commencing the service, it was the
Words: 13:custom to hand a pitcher of the favourite beverage to every member of
Words: 13:the family, not excepting the nephew, a child of between four and five
Words: 12:years old. William was in the habit of watching his opportunity during
Words: 13:the prayer and helping himself from the pitcher, but one day letting it
Words: 11:fall, his propensity for this intoxicating drink was discovered, and he
Words: 6:was severely punished for its indulgence.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:In 1830, being then about sixteen years of age, William was hired to a
Words: 11:slave-dealer named Walker. This change of employment led the youth away
Words: 12:south and frustrated, for a time, his plans for escape. His experience
Words: 9:while in this capacity furnishes some interesting, though painful,
Words: 12:details of the legalized traffic in human beings carried on in the
Words: 12:United States. The desperation to which the slaves are driven at their
Words: 11:forced separation from husband, wife, children, and kindred, he found to
Words: 11:be a frequent cause of suicide. Slave-dealers he discovered were as
Words: 13:great adepts at deception in the sale of their commodity as the most
Words: 9:knowing down-easter, or tricky horse dealer. William's occupation on
Words: 13:board the steamer, as they steamed south, was to prepare the stock for
Words: 13:the market, by shaving off whiskers and blacking the grey hairs with a
Words: 2:colouring composition.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:At the expiration of the period of his hiring with Walker, William
Words: 11:returned to his master rejoiced to have escaped an employment so
Words: 14:repugnant to his feelings. But this joy was not of long duration. One of
Words: 13:his sisters who, although sold to another master had been living in the
Words: 14:same city with himself and mother, was again sold to be sent away south,
Words: 11:never in all probability to meet her sorrowing relatives. Dr. Young
Words: 13:also, wanting money, intimated to his young kinsman that he was about to
Words: 10:sell him. This intimation determined William, in conjunction with his
Words: 10:mother, to attempt their escape. For ten nights they travelled
Words: 13:northwards, hiding themselves in the woods by day. The mother and son at
Words: 10:length deemed themselves safe from re-capture, and, although weary and
Words: 12:foot-sore, were laying down sanguine plans for the acquisition of a farm
Words: 14:in Canada, the purchase of the freedom of the six other members of the
Words: 11:family still in slavery, and rejoicing in the anticipated happiness of
Words: 14:their free home in Canada. At that moment three men made up to and
Words: 12:seized them, bound the son and led him, with his desponding mother,
Words: 13:back to slavery. Elizabeth was sold and sent away south, while her son
Words: 11:became the property of a merchant tailor named Willi. Mr. Brown's
Words: 11:description of the final interview between himself and his mother, is
Words: 12:one of the most touching portions of his narrative. The mother, after
Words: 12:expressing her conviction of the speedy escape from slavery by the hand
Words: 13:of death, enjoined her child to persevere in his endeavours to gain his
Words: 12:freedom by flight. Her blessing was interrupted by the kick and curse
Words: 9:bestowed by her dehumanized master upon her beloved son.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:After having been hired for a short time to the captain of the
Words: 11:steam-boat _Otto_, William was finally sold to Captain Enoch Price for
Words: 11:650 dollars. That the quickness and intelligence of William rendered him
Words: 13:very valuable as a slave, is favoured by the evidence of Enoch Price
Words: 13:himself, who states that he was offered 2000 dollars for Sanford (as he
Words: 12:was called), in New Orleans. William was strongly urged by his new
Words: 14:mistress to marry. To facilitate this object, she even went so far as to
Words: 13:purchase a girl for whom she fancied he had an affection. He himself,
Words: 11:however, had secretly resolved never to enter into such a connexion
Words: 11:while in slavery, knowing that marriage, in the true and honourable
Words: 11:sense of the term, could not exist among slaves. Notwithstanding the
Words: 12:multitude of petty offences for which a slave is severely punished, it
Words: 10:is singular that one crime--bigamy--is visited upon a white with
Words: 14:severity, while no slave has ever yet been tried for it. In fact, the
Words: 13:man is allowed to form connections with as many women, and the women
Words: 7:with as many men, as they please.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:At St. Louis, William was employed as coachman to Mr. Price; but when
Words: 11:that gentleman subsequently took his family up the river to Cincinnati,
Words: 11:Sanford acted as appointed steward. While lying off this city, the
Words: 10:long-looked-for opportunity of escape presented itself; and on the 1st
Words: 11:of January, 1834--he being then almost twenty years of age--succeeded in
Words: 14:getting from the steamer to the wharf, and thence to the woods, where he
Words: 13:lay concealed until the shades of night had set in, when he again
Words: 12:commenced his journey northwards. While with Dr. Young, a nephew of that
Words: 11:gentleman, whose christian name was William, came into the family: the
Words: 11:slave was, therefore, denuded of the name of William, and thenceforth
Words: 11:called Sanford. This deprivation of his original name he had ever
Words: 12:regarded as an indignity, and having now gained his freedom he resumed
Words: 15:his original name; and as there was no one by whom he could be addressed
Words: 12:by it, he exultingly enjoyed the first-fruits of his freedom by calling
Words: 12:himself aloud by his old name "William!" After passing through a variety
Words: 12:of painful vicissitudes, on the eighth day he found himself destitute of
Words: 11:pecuniary means, and unable, from severe illness, to pursue his journey.
Words: 13:In that condition he was discovered by a venerable member of the Society
Words: 15:of Friends, who placed him in a covered waggon and took him to his own
Words: 12:house. There he remained about fifteen days, and by the kind treatment
Words: 12:of his host and hostess, who were what in America are called
Words: 11:"Thompsonians," he was restored to health, and supplied with the means
Words: 12:of pursuing his journey. The name of this, his first kind benefactor,
Words: 13:was "Wells Brown." As William had risen from the degradation of a slave
Words: 14:to the dignity of a man, it was expedient that he should follow the
Words: 12:customs of other men, and adopt a second name. His venerable friend,
Words: 12:therefore, bestowed upon him his own name, which, prefixed by his former
Words: 12:designation, made him "William Wells Brown," a name that will live in
Words: 13:history, while those of the men who claimed him as property would, were
Words: 14:it not for his deeds, have been unknown beyond the town in which they
Words: 13:lived. In nine days from the time he left Wells Brown's house, he
Words: 13:arrived at Cleveland, in the State of Ohio, where he found he could
Words: 10:remain comparatively safe from the pursuit of the man-stealer. Having
Words: 12:obtained employment as a waiter, he remained in that city until the
Words: 11:following spring, when he procured an engagement on board a steam-boat
Words: 12:plying on Lake Erie. In that situation he was enabled, during seven
Words: 12:months, to assist no less than sixty-nine slaves to escape to Canada.
Words: 14:While a slave he had regarded the whites as the natural enemies of his
Words: 12:race. It was, therefore, with no small pleasure that he discovered the
Words: 12:existence of the salt of America, in the despised Abolitionists of the
Words: 11:Northern States. He read with assiduity the writings of Benjamin Lundy,
Words: 11:William Lloyd Garrison, and others; and after his own twenty years'
Words: 11:experience of slavery, it is not surprising that he should have
Words: 8:enthusiastically embraced the principles of "total and immediate
Words: 6:emancipation," and "no union with slaveholders."
Words: 0:
Words: 10:In proportion as his mind expanded under the more favourable
Words: 12:circumstances in which he was placed, he became anxious, not merely for
Words: 12:the redemption of his race from personal slavery, but for the moral
Words: 12:elevation of those among them who were free. Finding that habits of
Words: 10:intoxication were too prevalent amongst his coloured brethren, he, in
Words: 9:conjunction with others, commenced a temperance reformation in their
Words: 14:body. Such was the success of their efforts that in three years, in the
Words: 13:city of Buffalo alone, a society of upwards of 500 members was raised
Words: 13:out of a coloured population of 700. Of that society Mr. Brown was
Words: 3:thrice elected President.
Words: 0:
Words: 10:The intellectual powers of our author, coupled with his intimate
Words: 11:acquaintance with the workings of the slave system, recommended him to
Words: 11:the Abolitionists as a man eminently qualified to arouse the attention
Words: 13:of the people of the Northern States to the great national sin of
Words: 13:America. In 1843 he was engaged as a lecturer by the Western New-York
Words: 11:Anti-Slavery Society. From 1844 to 1847 he laboured in the anti-slavery
Words: 10:cause in connection with the American Anti-Slavery Society, and from
Words: 15:that period up to the time of his departure for Europe, in 1849, he was
Words: 11:an agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society. The records of those
Words: 11:societies furnish abundant evidence of the success of his labours. From
Words: 9:the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society he early received the following
Words: 1:testimony:--
Words: 0:
Words: 10:"Since Mr. Brown became an agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery
Words: 12:Society, he has lectured in very many of the towns of this
Words: 10:Commonwealth, and won for himself general respect and approbation. He
Words: 9:combines true self-respect with true humility, and rare judiciousness
Words: 10:with great moral courage. Himself a fugitive slave, he can
Words: 11:experimentally describe the situation of those in bonds as bound with
Words: 11:them; and he powerfully illustrates the diabolism of that system which
Words: 13:keeps in chains and darkness a host of minds, which, if free and
Words: 10:enlightened, would shine among men like stars in a firmament."
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Another member of that Society speaks thus of him:--"I need not attempt
Words: 10:any description of the ability and efficiency which characterized his
Words: 13:speaking throughout the meetings. To you who know him so well, it is
Words: 14:enough to say that his lectures were worthy of himself. He has left an
Words: 13:impression on the minds of the people, that few could have done. Cold,
Words: 14:indeed, must be the heart that could resist the appeals of so noble a
Words: 11:specimen of humanity, in behalf of a crushed and despised race."
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Notwithstanding the celebrity Mr. Brown had acquired in the north, as a
Words: 13:man of genius and talent, and the general respect his high character had
Words: 13:gained him, the slave spirit of America denied him the rights of a
Words: 12:citizen. By the constitution of the United States, he was every moment
Words: 16:liable to be seized and sent back to slavery. He was in daily peril of a
Words: 10:gradual legalized murder, under a system one of whose established
Words: 13:economical principles is, that it is more profitable to work up a slave
Words: 13:on a plantation in a short time, by excessive labour and cheap food,
Words: 11:than to obtain a lengthened remuneration by moderate work and humane
Words: 13:treatment. His only protection from such a fate was the anomaly of the
Words: 12:ascendancy of the public opinion over the law of the country. So
Words: 11:uncertain, however, was that tenure of liberty, that even before the
Words: 13:passage of the Fugitive Slave Law, it was deemed expedient to secure the
Words: 11:services of Frederick Douglass to the anti-slavery cause by the purchase
Words: 13:of his freedom. The same course might have been taken to secure the
Words: 11:labours of Mr. Brown, had he not entertained an unconquerable repugnance
Words: 14:to its adoption. On the 10th of January, 1848, Enoch Price wrote to Mr.
Words: 13:Edmund Quincy offering to sell Mr. Brown to himself or friends for 325
Words: 10:dollars. To this communication the fugitive returned the following pithy
Words: 3:and noble reply:--
Words: 0:
Words: 14:"I cannot accept of Mr. Price's offer to become a purchaser of my body
Words: 16:and soul. God made me as free as he did Enoch Price, and Mr. Price shall
Words: 12:never receive a dollar from me or my friends with my consent."
Words: 0:
Words: 11:There were, however, other reasons besides his personal safety which led
Words: 13:to Mr. Brown's visit to Europe. It was thought desirable always to have
Words: 15:in England some talented man of colour who should be a living lie to the
Words: 12:doctrine of the inferiority of the African race: and it was moreover
Words: 12:felt that none could so powerfully advocate the cause of "those in
Words: 13:bonds" as one who had actually been "bound with them." This had been
Words: 10:proved in the extraordinary effect produced in Great Britain by
Words: 10:Frederick Douglass in 1845 and 1846. The American Committee in
Words: 11:connection with the Peace Congress were also desirous of sending to
Words: 10:Europe coloured representatives of their Society, and Mr. Brown was
Words: 12:selected for that purpose, and duly accredited by them to the Paris
Words: 1:Congress.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:On the 18th of July, 1849, a large meeting of the coloured citizens of
Words: 13:Boston was held in Washington Hall to bid him farewell. At that meeting
Words: 6:the following resolutions were unanimously adopted:--
Words: 0:
Words: 11:"_Resolved_,--That we bid our brother, William Wells Brown, God speed in
Words: 11:      his mission to Europe, and commend him to the hospitality and
Words: 7:      encouragement of all true friends of humanity.
Words: 0:
Words: 10:"_Resolved_,--That we forward by him our renewed protest against the
Words: 10:      American Colonization Society; and invoke for him a candid hearing
Words: 12:      before the British public, in reply to the efforts put forth there
Words: 12:      by the Rev. Mr. Miller, or any other agent of said Society."
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Two days afterwards he sailed for Europe, encountering on his voyage his
Words: 7:last experience of American prejudice against colour.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:On the 28th of August he landed at Liverpool, a time and place memorable
Words: 15:in his life as the first upon which he could truly call himself a free
Words: 12:man upon God's earth. In the history of nations, as of individuals,
Words: 10:there is often singular retributive mercy as well as retributive
Words: 10:justice. In the seventeenth century the victims of monarchical tyranny
Words: 12:in Great Britain found social and political freedom when they set foot
Words: 12:upon Plymouth Rock in New England: in the nineteenth century the victims
Words: 11:of the oppressions of the American Republic find freedom and social
Words: 9:equality upon the shores of monarchical England. Liverpool, which
Words: 13:seventy years back was so steeped in the guilt of negro slavery that
Words: 14:Paine expressed his surprise that God did not sweep it from the face of
Words: 14:the earth, is now to the hunted negro the Plymouth Rock of Old England.
Words: 12:From Liverpool he proceeded to Dublin where he was warmly received by
Words: 12:Mr. Haughton, Mr. Webb, and other friends of the slave, and publicly
Words: 12:welcomed at a large meeting presided over by the first named gentleman.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:The reception of Mr. Brown at the Peace Congress in Paris was most
Words: 12:flattering. In a company, comprising a large portion of the _elite_ of
Words: 11:Europe, he admirably maintained his reputation as a public speaker. His
Words: 12:brief address, upon that "war spirit of America which holds in bondage
Words: 11:three million of his brethren," produced a profound sensation. At its
Words: 11:conclusion the speaker was warmly greeted by Victor Hugo, the Abbe
Words: 10:Duguerry, Emile de Girardin, the Pastor Coquerel, Richard Cobden, and
Words: 14:every man of note in the Assembly. At the soiree given by M. De
Words: 11:Tocqueville, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and the other fetes given
Words: 12:to the Members of the Congress, Mr. Brown was received with marked
Words: 1:attention.
Words: 0:
Words: 10:Having finished his Peace mission in France, he commenced an
Words: 10:Anti-slavery tour in England and Scotland. With that independence of
Words: 13:feeling which those who are acquainted with him know to be his chief
Words: 9:characteristic, he rejected the idea of anything like eleemosynary
Words: 11:support. He determined to maintain himself and family by his own
Words: 10:exertions--by his literary labours, and the honourable profession of a
Words: 11:public lecturer. His first metropolitan reception in England was at a
Words: 10:large, influential, and enthusiastic meeting in the Music Hall, Stone
Words: 9:Street. The members of the Whittington Club--an institution numbering
Words: 10:nearly 2000 members, among whom are Lords Brougham, Dudley Coutts
Words: 8:Stuart, and Beaumont; Charles Dickens, Douglass Jerrold, Martin
Words: 9:Thackeray, Charles Lushington, M.P., Monckton Milnes, M.P., and several
Words: 11:other of the most distinguished legislators and literary men and women
Words: 13:in this country--elected Mr. Brown an honorary member of the Club, as a
Words: 13:mark of respect to his character; and, as the following extract from the
Words: 10:Secretary, Mr. Stundwicke, will show, as a protest against the
Words: 11:distinctions made between man and man on account of colour in
Words: 12:America:--"I have much pleasure in conveying to you the best thanks of
Words: 11:the managing committee of this institution for the excellent lecture you
Words: 13:gave here last evening on the subject of 'Slavery in America,' and also
Words: 12:in presenting you in their names with an honorary membership of the
Words: 13:Club. It is hoped that you will often avail yourself of its privileges
Words: 14:by coming amongst us. You will then see, by the cordial welcome of the
Words: 10:members, that they protest against the odious distinctions made between
Words: 13:man and man, and the abominable traffic of which you have been the
Words: 1:victim."
Words: 0:
Words: 13:For the last three years Mr. Brown has been engaged in visiting and
Words: 13:holding meetings in nearly all the large towns in the kingdom upon the
Words: 10:question of American Slavery, Temperance, and other subjects. Perhaps no
Words: 8:coloured individual, not excepting that extraordinary man, Frederick
Words: 10:Douglass, has done more good in disseminating anti-slavery principles in
Words: 4:England, Scotland, and Ireland.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:In the spring of 1851, two most interesting fugitives, William and Ellen
Words: 12:Craft, arrived in England. They had made their escape from the South,
Words: 13:the wife disguised in male attire, and the husband in the capacity of
Words: 13:her slave. William Craft was doing a thriving business in Boston, but in
Words: 14:1851 was driven with his wife from that city by the operation of the
Words: 11:Fugitive Slave Law. For several months they travelled in company with
Words: 12:Mr. Brown in this country, deepening the disgust created by Mr. Brown's
Words: 10:eloquent denunciation of slavery by their simple but touching narrative.
Words: 12:At length they were enabled to gratify their thirst for education by
Words: 12:gaining admission to Lady Byron's school at Oakham, Surrey. In the month
Words: 15:of May, Mr. Brown and Mr. and Mrs. Craft were taken by a party of
Words: 10:anti-slavery friends to the Great Exhibition. The honourable manner in
Words: 11:which they were received by distinguished persons to whom their history
Words: 11:was known, and the freedom with which they perambulated the American
Words: 11:department, was a salutary rebuke to the numerous Americans present, in
Words: 11:regard to the great sin of their country--slavery; and its great
Words: 9:folly--prejudice of colour. A curious circumstance occurred during the
Words: 12:Exhibition. Among the hosts of American visitors to this country was Mr.
Words: 11:Brown's late master, Enoch Price, who made diligent inquiry after his
Words: 11:lost piece of property--not, of course, with any view to its
Words: 10:reclamation--but, to the mutual regret of both parties, without success.
Words: 13:It is gratifying to state that the master spoke highly of, and expressed
Words: 13:a wish for the future prosperity of, his fugitive slave; a fact which
Words: 14:tends to prove that prejudice of colour is to a very great extent a
Words: 11:thing of locality and association. Had Mr. Price, however, left behind
Words: 13:him letters of manumission for Mr. Brown, enabling him, if he chose, to
Words: 14:return to his native land, he would have given a more practical proof of
Words: 13:respect, and of the sincerity of his desire for the welfare of Mr.
Words: 1:Brown.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:It would extend these pages far beyond their proposed length were
Words: 11:anything like a detailed account of Mr. Brown's anti-slavery labours in
Words: 12:this country to be attempted. Suffice it to say that they have
Words: 10:everywhere been attended with benefit and approbation. At Bolton an
Words: 12:admirable address from the ladies was presented to him, and at other
Words: 7:places he has received most honourable testimonials.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Since Mr. Brown left America, the condition of the fugitive slaves in
Words: 12:his own country has, through the operation of the Fugitive Slave Law,
Words: 11:been rendered so perilous as to preclude the possibility of return
Words: 10:without the almost certain loss of liberty. His expatriation has,
Words: 14:however, been a gain to the cause of humanity in this country, where an
Words: 8:intelligent representative of the oppressed coloured Americans is
Words: 10:constantly needed, not only to describe, in language of fervid
Words: 12:eloquence, the wrongs inflicted upon his race in the United States, but
Words: 11:to prevent their bonds being strengthened in this country by holding
Words: 8:fellowship with slave-holding and slave-abetting ministers from America.
Words: 12:In his lectures he has clearly demonstrated the fact, that the sole
Words: 12:support of the slavery of the United States is its churches. This
Words: 11:knowledge of the standing of American ministers in reference to slavery
Words: 14:has, in the case of Dr. Dyer, and in many other instances, been most
Words: 8:serviceable, preventing their reception into communion with British
Words: 12:churches. Last year Mr. Brown succeeded in getting over to this country
Words: 11:his daughters, two interesting girls twelve and sixteen years of age
Words: 11:respectively, who are now receiving an education which will qualify them
Words: 10:hereafter to become teachers in their turn--a description of education
Words: 13:which would have been denied them in their native land. In 1834 Mr.
Words: 13:Brown married a free coloured woman, who died in January of the present
Words: 1:year.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:The condition of escaped slaves has engaged much of his attention while
Words: 11:in this country. He found that in England no anti-slavery organization
Words: 11:existed whose object was to aid fugitive slaves in obtaining an
Words: 12:honourable subsistence in the land of their exile. In most cases they
Words: 11:are thrown upon the support of a few warm-hearted anti-slavery advocates
Words: 10:in this country, pre-eminent among whom stands Mr. Brown's earliest
Words: 12:friend, Mr. George Thompson, M.P., whose house is rarely free from one
Words: 12:or more of those who have acquired the designation of his "American
Words: 10:constituents." This want has recently been attempted to be supplied,
Words: 11:partly through Mr. Brown's exertions, and partly by the establishment of
Words: 4:the Anglo-American Anti-Slavery Association.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:On the 1st of August, 1851, a meeting of the most novel character was
Words: 13:held at the Hall of Commerce, London, being a soiree given by fugitive
Words: 13:slaves in this country to Mr. George Thompson, on his return from his
Words: 12:American mission on behalf of their race. That meeting was most ably
Words: 13:presided over by Mr. Brown, and the speeches made upon the occasion by
Words: 10:fugitive slaves were of the most interesting and creditable description.
Words: 11:Although a residence in Canada is infinitely preferable to slavery in
Words: 11:America, yet the climate of that country is uncongenial to the
Words: 12:constitutions of the fugitive slaves, and their lack of education is an
Words: 11:almost insuperable barrier to their social progress. The latter evil Mr.
Words: 12:Brown attempted to remedy by the establishment of a Manual Labour School
Words: 2:in Canada.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:A public meeting, attended by between 3000 and 4000 persons, was
Words: 14:convened by Mr. Brown, on the 6th of January, 1851, in the City Hall,
Words: 12:Glasgow, presided over by Mr. Hastie, one of the representatives of that
Words: 11:city, at which meeting a resolution was unanimously passed approving of
Words: 11:Mr. Brown's scheme, which scheme, however, never received that amount of
Words: 13:support which would have enabled him to bring it into practice; and the
Words: 12:plan at present only remains as an evidence of its author's ingenuity
Words: 11:and desire for the elevation of his depressed race. Mr. Brown
Words: 10:subsequently made, through the columns of the _Times_ newspaper, a
Words: 10:proposition for the emigration of American fugitive slaves, under fair
Words: 14:and honourable terms, to the West Indies, where there is a great lack of
Words: 11:that tillage labour which they are so capable of undertaking. This
Words: 11:proposition has hitherto met with no better fate than its predecessor.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:Mr. Brown's literary abilities may be partly judged of from the
Words: 11:following pages. The amount of knowledge and education he has acquired
Words: 11:under circumstances of no ordinary difficulty, is a striking proof of
Words: 13:what can be done by combined genius and industry. His proficiency as a
Words: 12:linguist, without the aid of a master, is considerable. His present work
Words: 12:is a valuable addition to the stock of English literature. The honour
Words: 13:which has hitherto been paid, and which, so long as he resides upon
Words: 13:British soil, will no doubt continue to be paid to his character and
Words: 11:talents, must have its influence in abating the senseless prejudice of
Words: 12:colour in America, and hastening the time when the object of his
Words: 12:mission, the abolition of the slavery of his native country, shall be
Words: 9:accomplished, and that young Republic renouncing with penitence its
Words: 11:national sin, shall take its proper place amongst the most free,
Words: 7:civilized, and Christian nations of the earth.
Words: 0:
Words: 1:                              W.F.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 1:PREFACE.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 13:While I feel conscious that most of the contents of these Letters will
Words: 12:be interesting chiefly to American readers, yet I may indulge the hope,
Words: 13:that the fact of their being the first production of a Fugitive Slave,
Words: 13:as a history of travels, may carry with them novelty enough to secure
Words: 13:for them, to some extent, the attention of the reading public of Great
Words: 13:Britain. Most of the letters were written for the private perusal of a
Words: 10:few personal friends in America; some were contributed to "Frederick
Words: 11:Douglass's paper," a journal published in the United States. In a
Words: 12:printed circular sent some weeks since to some of my friends, asking
Words: 11:subscriptions to this volume, I stated the reasons for its publication:
Words: 13:these need not be repeated here. To those who so promptly and kindly
Words: 14:responded to that appeal, I tender my most sincere thanks. It is with no
Words: 13:little diffidence that I lay these letters before the public; for I am
Words: 14:not blind to the fact, that they must contain many errors; and to those
Words: 15:who shall find fault with them on that account, it may not be too much
Words: 15:for me to ask them kindly to remember, that the author was a slave in
Words: 14:one of the Southern States of America, until he had attained the age of
Words: 13:twenty years; and that the education he has acquired, was by his own
Words: 11:exertions, he never having had a day's schooling in his life.
Words: 0:
Words: 3:                              W. WELLS BROWN.
Words: 0:
Words: 4:  22, CECIL STREET, STRAND,
Words: 1:     LONDON.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER I.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:_Departure from Boston--the Passengers--Halifax--the Passage--First
Words: 3:Sight of Land--Liverpool._
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 3:                    LIVERPOOL, _July 28_.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:On the 18th July, 1849, I took passage in the steam-ship _Canada_,
Words: 13:Captain Judkins, bound for Liverpool. The day was a warm one; so much
Words: 14:so, that many persons on board, as well as several on shore, stood with
Words: 14:their umbrellas up, so intense was the heat of the sun. The ringing of
Words: 14:the ship's bell was a signal for us to shake hands with our friends,
Words: 14:which we did, and then stepped on the deck of the noble craft. The
Words: 12:_Canada_ quitted her moorings at half-past twelve, and we were soon in
Words: 15:motion. As we were passing out of Boston Bay, I took my stand on the
Words: 13:quarter-deck, to take a last farewell (at least for a time), of my
Words: 16:native land. A visit to the old world, up to that time had seemed but a
Words: 12:dream. As I looked back upon the receding land, recollections of the
Words: 12:past rushed through my mind in quick succession. From the treatment that
Words: 13:I had received from the Americans as a victim of slavery, and the
Words: 14:knowledge that I was at that time liable to be seized and again reduced
Words: 13:to whips and chains, I had supposed that I would leave the country
Words: 15:without any regret; but in this I was mistaken, for when I saw the last
Words: 13:thread of communication cut off between me and the land, and the dim
Words: 14:shores dying away in the distance, I almost regretted that I was not on
Words: 1:shore.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:An anticipated trip to a foreign country appears pleasant when talking
Words: 12:about it, especially when surrounded by friends whom we love; but when
Words: 14:we have left them all behind, it does not seem so pleasant. Whatever may
Words: 14:be the fault of the government under which we live, and no matter how
Words: 13:oppressive her laws may appear, yet we leave our native land (if such
Words: 12:it be) with feelings akin to sorrow. With the steamer's powerful engine
Words: 15:at work, and with a fair wind, we were speedily on the bosom of the
Words: 14:Atlantic, which was as calm and as smooth as our own Hudson in its
Words: 12:calmest aspect. We had on board above one hundred passengers, forty of
Words: 10:whom were the "Viennese children"--a troop of dancers. The passengers
Words: 7:represented several different nations, English, French, Spaniards,
Words: 12:Africans, and Americans. One man who had the longest pair of mustaches
Words: 11:that mortal man was ever doomed to wear, especially attracted my
Words: 12:attention. He appeared to belong to no country in particular, but was
Words: 13:yet the busiest man on board. After viewing for some time the many
Words: 13:strange faces around me, I descended to the cabin to look after my
Words: 14:luggage, which had been put hurriedly on board. I hope that all who take
Words: 16:a trip of so great a distance may be as fortunate as I was, in being
Words: 13:supplied with books to read on the voyage. My friends had furnished me
Words: 11:with literature, from "Macaulay's History of England" to "Jane Eyre," so
Words: 11:that I did not want for books to occupy my time.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:A pleasant passage of about thirty hours, brought us to Halifax, at six
Words: 13:o'clock in the evening. In company with my friend the President of the
Words: 12:Oberlin Institute, I took a stroll through the town; and from what
Words: 16:little I saw of the people in the streets, I am sure that the taking of
Words: 13:the Temperance pledge would do them no injury. Our stay at Halifax was
Words: 14:short. Having taken in a few sacks of coals, the mails, and a limited
Words: 13:number of passengers, we were again out, and soon at sea. After a
Words: 16:pleasant run of seven days more, and as I was lying in my bed, I heard
Words: 11:the cry of "Land a-head." Although our passage had been unprecedentedly
Words: 15:short, yet I need not inform you that this news was hailed with joy by
Words: 16:all on board. For my own part, I was soon on deck. Away in the distance,
Words: 13:and on our larboard quarter, were the grey hills of Ireland. Yes! we
Words: 14:were in sight of the land of Emmett and O'Connell. While I rejoiced with
Words: 14:the other passengers at the sight of land, and the near approach to the
Words: 14:end of the voyage, I felt low spirited, because it reminded me of the
Words: 12:great distance I was from home. But the experience of above twenty
Words: 12:years' travelling, had prepared me to undergo what most persons must lay
Words: 13:their account with, in visiting a strange country. This was the last day
Words: 17:but one that we were to be on board; and as if moved by the sight of
Words: 9:land, all seemed to be gathering their different things
Words: 11:together--brushing up their old clothes and putting on their new ones,
Words: 14:as if this would bring them any sooner to the end of their journey.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:The last night on board was the most pleasant, apparently, that we had
Words: 12:experienced; probably, because it was the last. The moon was in her
Words: 11:meridian splendour, pouring her broad light over the calm sea; while
Words: 14:near to us, on our starboard side, was a ship with her snow-white sails
Words: 13:spread aloft, and stealing through the water like a thing of life. What
Words: 13:can present a more picturesque view, than two vessels at sea on a
Words: 13:moonlight night, and within a few rods of each other? With a gentle
Words: 14:breeze, and the powerful engine at work, we seemed to be flying to the
Words: 5:embrace of our British neighbours.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:The next morning I was up before the sun, and found that we were within
Words: 14:a few miles of Liverpool. The taking of a pilot on board at eleven
Words: 13:o'clock, warned us to prepare to quit our ocean palace and seek other
Words: 13:quarters. At a little past three o'clock, the ship cast anchor, and we
Words: 14:were all tumbled, bag and baggage, into a small steamer, and in a few
Words: 13:moments were at the door of the Custom-House. The passage had only been
Words: 13:nine days and twenty-two hours, the quickest on record at that time, yet
Words: 13:it was long enough. I waited nearly three hours before my name was
Words: 14:called, and when it was, I unlocked my trunks and handed them over to
Words: 13:one of the officers, whose dirty hands made no improvement on the work
Words: 12:of the laundress. First one article was taken out, and then another,
Words: 15:till an _Iron Collar_ that had been worn by a female slave on the banks
Words: 11:of the Mississippi, was hauled out, and this democratic instrument of
Words: 12:torture became the centre of attraction; so much so, that instead of
Words: 13:going on with the examination, all hands stopped to look at the "Negro
Words: 1:Collar."
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Several of my countrymen who were standing by, were not a little
Words: 12:displeased at answers which I gave to questions on the subject of
Words: 11:Slavery; but they held their peace. The interest created by the
Words: 12:appearance of the Iron Collar, closed the examination of my luggage. As
Words: 12:if afraid that they would find something more hideous, they put the
Words: 13:Custom-House mark on each piece, and passed them out, and I was soon
Words: 8:comfortably installed at Brown's Temperance Hotel, Clayton Square.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 12:No person of my complexion can visit this country without being struck
Words: 11:with the marked difference between the English and the Americans. The
Words: 12:prejudice which I have experienced on all and every occasion in the
Words: 12:United States, and to some extent on board the _Canada_, vanished as
Words: 16:soon as I set foot on the soil of Britain. In America I had been bought
Words: 13:and sold as a slave, in the Southern States. In the so-called free
Words: 12:States, I had been treated as one born to occupy an inferior
Words: 11:position,--in steamers, compelled to take my fare on the deck; in
Words: 14:hotels, to take my meals in the kitchen; in coaches, to ride on the
Words: 13:outside; in railways, to ride in the "negro car;" and in churches, to
Words: 16:sit in the "negro pew." But no sooner was I on British soil, than I was
Words: 13:recognised as a man, and an equal. The very dogs in the streets
Words: 12:appeared conscious of my manhood. Such is the difference, and such is
Words: 15:the change that is brought about by a trip of nine days in an Atlantic
Words: 1:steamer.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:I was not more struck with the treatment of the people, than with the
Words: 13:appearance of the great seaport of the world. The grey appearance of the
Words: 12:stone piers and docks, the dark look of the magnificent warehouses, the
Words: 10:substantial appearance of every thing around, causes one to think
Words: 13:himself in a new world instead of the old. Every thing in Liverpool
Words: 13:looks old, yet nothing is worn out. The beautiful villas on the opposite
Words: 12:side of the river, in the vicinity of Birkenhead, together with the
Words: 14:countless number of vessels in the river, and the great ships to be seen
Words: 11:in the stream, give life and animation to the whole scene.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:Every thing in and about Liverpool seems to be built for the future as
Words: 14:well as the present. We had time to examine but few of the public
Words: 11:buildings, the first of which was the Custom-House, an edifice that
Words: 10:would be an ornament to any city in the world.
Words: 0:
Words: 16:For the first time in my life, I can say "I am truly free." My old
Words: 12:master may make his appearance here, with the Constitution of the United
Words: 14:States in his pocket, the Fugitive Slave Law in one hand and the chains
Words: 14:in the other, and claim me as his property, but all will avail him
Words: 15:nothing. I can here stand and look the tyrant in the face, and tell him
Words: 15:that I am his equal! England is, indeed, the "land of the free, and the
Words: 4:home of the brave."
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER II.
Words: 0:
Words: 7:_Trip to Ireland--Dublin--Her Majesty's Visit--Illumination of the
Words: 6:City--the Birth-Place of Thomas Moore--a Reception._
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 3:                    DUBLIN, _August 6_.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:After remaining in Liverpool two days, I took passage in the little
Words: 13:steamer _Adelaide_ for this city. The wind being high on the night of
Words: 14:our voyage, the vessel had scarcely got to sea ere we were driven to
Words: 12:our berths; and though the distance from Liverpool to Dublin is short,
Words: 14:yet, strange to say, I witnessed more effects of the sea and rolling of
Words: 14:the steamer upon the passengers, than was to be seen during the whole of
Words: 11:our voyage from America. We reached Kingstown, five miles below Dublin,
Words: 14:after a passage of nearly fifteen hours, and were soon seated on a car,
Words: 16:and on our way to the city. While coming into the bay, one gets a fine
Words: 13:view of Dublin and the surrounding country. Few sheets of water make a
Words: 12:more beautiful appearance than Dublin Bay. We found it as still and
Words: 13:smooth as a mirror, with a soft mist on its surface--a strange contrast
Words: 11:to the boisterous sea that we had left a moment before.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:The curious phrases of the Irish sounded harshly upon my ear, probably,
Words: 15:because they were strange to me. I lost no time on reaching the city in
Words: 14:seeking out some to whom I had letters of introduction, one of whom gave
Words: 14:me an invitation to make his house my home during my stay, an invitation
Words: 8:which I did not think fit to decline.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Dublin, the Metropolis of Ireland, is a city of above two hundred
Words: 12:thousand inhabitants, and is considered by the people of Ireland to be
Words: 12:the second city in the British Empire. The Liffey, which falls into
Words: 12:Dublin Bay a little below the Custom-House, divides the town into two
Words: 10:nearly equal parts. The streets are--some of them--very fine, especially
Words: 12:upper Sackville Street, in the centre of which stands a pillar erected
Words: 10:to Nelson, England's most distinguished Naval Commander. The Bank of
Words: 13:Ireland, to which I paid a visit, is a splendid building, and was
Words: 9:formerly the Parliament House. This magnificent edifice fronts College
Words: 14:Green, and near at hand stands a bronze statue of William III. The Bank
Words: 12:and the Custom-House are two of the finest monuments of architecture in
Words: 13:the city; the latter of which stands near the river Liffey, and its
Words: 10:front makes an imposing appearance, extending to three hundred and
Words: 13:seventy-five feet. It is built of Portland stone, and is adorned with a
Words: 10:beautiful portico in the centre, consisting of four Doric columns
Words: 11:supporting an enriched entablature, decorated with a group of figures in
Words: 8:alto-relievo, representing Hibernia and Britannia presenting emblems of
Words: 11:peace and liberty. A magnificent dome, supporting a cupola, on whose
Words: 13:apex stands a colossal figure of Hope, rises nobly from the centre of
Words: 13:the building to a height of one hundred and twenty-five feet. It is,
Words: 9:withal, a fine specimen of what man can do.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:From this noble edifice, we bent our steps to another part of the city,
Words: 13:and soon found ourselves in the vicinity of St. Patrick's, where we had
Words: 12:a heart-sickening view of the poorest of the poor. All the recollections
Words: 12:of poverty which I had ever beheld, seemed to disappear in comparison
Words: 14:with what was then before me. We passed a filthy and noisy market, where
Words: 12:fruit and vegetable women were screaming and begging those passing by to
Words: 10:purchase their commodities; while in and about the market-place were
Words: 11:throngs of beggars fighting for rotten fruit, cabbage stocks, and even
Words: 12:the very trimmings of vegetables. On the side walks, were great numbers
Words: 11:hovering about the doors of the more wealthy, and following strangers,
Words: 10:importuning them for "pence to buy bread." Sickly and emaciated-looking
Words: 12:creatures, half naked, were at our heels at every turn. After passing
Words: 13:through a half dozen, or more, of narrow and dirty streets, we returned
Words: 14:to our lodgings, impressed with the idea that we had seen enough of the
Words: 4:poor for one day.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:In our return home, we passed through a respectable looking street, in
Words: 12:which stands a small three storey brick building, which was pointed out
Words: 13:to us as the birth-place of Thomas Moore, the poet. The following verse
Words: 13:from one of Moore's poems was continually in my mind while viewing this
Words: 1:house:--
Words: 0:
Words: 6:    "Where is the slave, so lowly,
Words: 4:    Condemn'd to chains unholy,
Words: 4:    Who, could he burst
Words: 4:    His bonds at first,
Words: 5:    Would pine beneath them slowly?"
Words: 0:
Words: 5:       *       *       *       *       *
Words: 0:
Words: 13:Yesterday was the Sabbath, but it had more the appearance of a holiday
Words: 15:than a day of rest. It had been announced the day before, that the Royal
Words: 13:fleet was expected, and at an early hour on Sunday, the entire town
Words: 14:seemed to be on the move towards Kingstown, and as the family with whom
Words: 12:I was staying followed the multitude, I was not inclined to remain
Words: 13:behind, and so went with them. On reaching the station we found it
Words: 13:utterly impossible to get standing room in any of the trains, much less
Words: 13:a seat, and therefore determined to reach Kingstown under the plea of a
Words: 14:morning's walk; and in this we were not alone, for during the walk of
Words: 12:five miles the road was filled with thousands of pedestrians and a
Words: 11:countless number of carriages, phaetons, and vehicles of a more humble
Words: 1:order.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:We reached the lower town in time to get a good dinner, and rest
Words: 11:ourselves before going to make further searches for Her Majesty's fleet.
Words: 12:At a little past four o'clock, we observed the multitude going towards
Words: 14:the pier, a number of whom were yelling at the top of their voices,
Words: 14:"It's coming, it's coming;" but on going to the quay, we found that a
Words: 14:false alarm had been given. However, we had been on the look-out but a
Words: 15:short time, when a column of smoke rising as it were out of the sea,
Words: 13:announced that the Royal fleet was near at hand. The concourse in the
Words: 12:vicinity of the pier was variously estimated at from eighty to one
Words: 2:hundred thousand.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:It was not long before the five steamers were entering the harbour, the
Words: 14:one bearing Her Majesty leading the way. As each vessel had a number of
Words: 13:distinguished persons on board, the people appeared to be at a loss to
Words: 14:know which was the Queen; and as each party made its appearance on the
Words: 10:promenade deck, they were received with great enthusiasm, the party
Words: 11:having the best looking lady being received with the greatest applause.
Words: 12:The Prince of Wales, and Prince Alfred, while crossing the deck were
Words: 12:recognised and greeted with three cheers; the former taking off his hat
Words: 14:and bowing to the people, showed that he had had some training as a
Words: 14:public man although not ten years of age. But not so with Prince Alfred;
Words: 15:for, when his brother turned to him and asked him to take off his hat
Words: 16:and make a bow to the people, he shook his head and said, "No." This was
Words: 13:received with hearty laughter by those on board, and was responded to by
Words: 13:the thousands on shore. But greater applause was yet in store for the
Words: 13:young prince; for the captain of the steamer being near by, and seeing
Words: 14:that the Prince of Wales could not prevail on his brother to take off
Words: 15:his hat, stepped up to him and undertook to take it off for him, when,
Words: 14:seemingly to the delight of all, the prince put both hands to his head
Words: 15:and held his hat fast. This was regarded as a sign of courage and future
Words: 10:renown, and was received with the greatest enthusiasm--many crying out,
Words: 12:"Good, good: he will make a brave king when his day comes."
Words: 0:
Words: 12:After the greetings and applause had been wasted on many who had
Words: 15:appeared on deck, all at once, as if by some magic power, we beheld a
Words: 13:lady rather small in stature, with auburn or reddish hair, attired in a
Words: 11:plain dress, and wearing a sky-blue bonnet, standing on the larboard
Words: 12:paddle-box, by the side of a tall good-looking man, with mustaches. The
Words: 14:thunders of applause that now rent the air, and cries of "The Queen, the
Words: 14:Queen," seemed to set at rest the question of which was Her Majesty. But
Words: 14:a few moments were allowed to the people to look at the Queen, before
Words: 13:she again disappeared; and it was understood that she would not be seen
Words: 14:again that evening. A rush was then made for the railway, to return to
Words: 1:Dublin.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:       *       *       *       *       *
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:                    _August 8_.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:Yesterday was a great day in Dublin. At an early hour the bells began
Words: 13:their merry peals, and the people were soon seen in groups in the
Words: 13:streets and public squares. The hour of ten was fixed for the procession
Words: 14:to leave Kingstown, and it was expected to enter the city at eleven. The
Words: 13:windows of the houses in the streets through which the Royal train was
Words: 12:to pass, were at a premium, and seemed to find ready occupants.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:Being invited the day previous to occupy part of a window in Upper
Words: 12:Sackville Street, I was stationed at my allotted place, at an early
Words: 12:hour, with an out-stretched neck and open eyes. My own colour differing
Words: 13:from those about me, I attracted not a little attention from many; and
Words: 14:often, when gazing down the street to see if the Royal procession was in
Words: 13:sight, would find myself eyed by all around. But neither while at the
Words: 14:window, or in the streets, was I once insulted. This was so unlike the
Words: 12:American prejudice, that it seemed strange to me. It was near twelve
Words: 11:o'clock before the procession entered Sackville Street, and when it did
Words: 12:all eyes seemed to beam with delight. The first carriage contained only
Words: 12:Her Majesty and the Prince Consort; the second, the Royal children; and
Words: 12:the third, the Lords in Waiting. Fifteen carriages were used by those
Words: 17:that made up the Royal party. I had a full view of the Queen and all who
Words: 11:followed in the train. Her Majesty--whether from actual love for her
Words: 12:person, or the novelty of the occasion, I know not which--was received
Words: 10:everywhere with the greatest enthusiasm. One thing, however, is certain,
Words: 9:and that is--Queen Victoria is beloved by her subjects.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:But the grand _fete_ was reserved for the evening. Great preparations
Words: 13:had been made to have a grand illumination on the occasion, and hints
Words: 12:were thrown out that it would surpass anything ever witnessed in London.
Words: 15:In this they were not far out of the way; for all who witnessed the
Words: 12:scene admitted that it could scarcely have been surpassed. My own idea
Words: 15:of an illumination, as I had seen it in the backwoods of my own native
Words: 10:land, dwindled into nothing when compared with this magnificent affair.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:In company with a few friends, and a lady under my charge, I undertook
Words: 12:to pass through Sackville and one or two other streets, about eight
Words: 12:o'clock in the evening, but we found it utterly impossible to proceed.
Words: 10:Masses thronged the streets, and the wildest enthusiasm seemed to
Words: 14:prevail. In our attempt to cross the bridge, we were wedged in and lost
Words: 13:our companions; and on one occasion I was separated from the lady, and
Words: 13:took shelter under a cart standing in the street. After being jammed and
Words: 13:pulled about for nearly two hours, I returned to my lodgings, where I
Words: 14:found part of my company, who had come in one after another. At eleven
Words: 11:o'clock we had all assembled, and each told his adventures and
Words: 10:"hairbreadth escapes;" and nearly every one had lost a pocket
Words: 12:handkerchief or something of the kind: my own was among the missing.
Words: 13:However, I lost nothing; for a benevolent lady, who happened to be one
Words: 14:of the company, presented me with one which was of far more value than
Words: 5:the one I had lost.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Every one appeared to enjoy the holiday which the Royal visit had
Words: 12:caused. But the Irish are indeed a strange people. How varied their
Words: 9:aspect--how contradictory their character. Ireland, the land of genius
Words: 7:and degradation--of great resources and unparalleled poverty--noble
Words: 10:deeds and the most revolting crimes--the land of distinguished poets,
Words: 11:splendid orators, and the bravest of soldiers--the land of ignorance and
Words: 12:beggary! Dublin is a splendid city, but its splendour is that of
Words: 10:chiselled marble rather than real life. One cannot behold these
Words: 10:architectural monuments without thinking of the great men that Ireland
Words: 10:has produced. The names of Burke, Sheridan, Flood, Grattan, O'Connell,
Words: 12:and Shiel, have become as familiar to the Americans as household words.
Words: 13:Burke is known as the statesman; Sheridan for his great speech on the
Words: 11:trial of Warren Hastings; Grattan for his eloquence; O'Connell as the
Words: 7:agitator; and Shiel as the accomplished orator.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:But of Ireland's sons, none stands higher in America than Thomas Moore,
Words: 13:the Poet. The vigour of his sarcasm, the glow of his enthusiasm, the
Words: 14:coruscations of his fancy, and the flashing of his wit, seem to be as
Words: 14:well understood in the new world as the old; and the support which his
Words: 11:pen has given to civil and religious liberty throughout the world,
Words: 9:entitled the Minstrel of Erin to this elevated position.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:Before leaving America I had heard much of the friends of my enslaved
Words: 12:countrymen residing in Ireland; and the reception I met with on all
Words: 14:hands while in public, satisfied me that what I had heard had not been
Words: 11:exaggerated. To the Webbs, Allens, and Haughtons, of Dublin, the cause
Words: 7:of the American slave is much indebted.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:I quitted Dublin with a feeling akin to leaving my native land.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER III.
Words: 0:
Words: 6:_Departure from Ireland--London--Trip to Paris--Paris--The Peace
Words: 7:Congress: first day--Church of the Madeleine--Column Vendome--the
Words: 1:French._
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 3:                    PARIS, _August 23_.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:After a pleasant sojourn of three weeks in Ireland, I took passage in
Words: 13:one of the mail steamers for Liverpool, and arriving there was soon on
Words: 13:the road to the metropolis. The passage from Dublin to Liverpool was an
Words: 13:agreeable one. The rough sea that we passed through on going to Ireland
Words: 14:had given way to a dead calm, and our noble little steamer, on quitting
Words: 14:the Dublin wharf, seemed to understand that she was to have it all her
Words: 14:own way. During the first part of the evening, the boat appeared to feel
Words: 10:her importance, and, darting through the water with majestic strides,
Words: 15:she left behind her a dark cloud of smoke suspended in the air like a
Words: 14:banner; while, far astern in the wake of the vessel, could be seen the
Words: 12:rippled waves sparkling in the rays of the moon, giving strength and
Words: 7:beauty to the splendour of the evening.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:On reaching Liverpool, and partaking of a good breakfast, for which we
Words: 12:paid double price, we proceeded to the railway station, and were soon
Words: 14:going at a rate unknown to those accustomed to travel on one of our
Words: 13:American railways. At a little past two o'clock in the afternoon, we saw
Words: 13:in the distance the out-skirts of London. We could get but an indistinct
Words: 11:view, which had the appearance of one architectural mass, extending all
Words: 13:round to the horizon, and enveloped in a combination of fog and smoke;
Words: 14:and towering above every other object to be seen, was the dome of St.
Words: 2:Paul's Cathedral.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:A few moments more, and we were safely seated in a "Hansom's Patent,"
Words: 14:and on our way to Hughes's--one of the politest men of the George Fox
Words: 14:stamp we have ever met. Here we found forty or fifty persons, who, like
Words: 11:ourselves, were bound for the Peace Congress. The Sturges, the Wighams,
Words: 13:the Richardsons, the Allens, the Thomases, and a host of others not less
Words: 12:distinguished as friends of peace, were of the company--many of whom I
Words: 17:had heard of, but none of whom I had ever seen; yet I was not an entire
Words: 11:stranger to many, especially to the abolitionists. In company with a
Words: 14:friend, I sallied forth after tea to take a view of the city. The
Words: 12:evening was fine--the dense fog and smoke having to some extent passed
Words: 12:away, left the stars shining brightly, while the gas light from the
Words: 12:street lamps and the brilliant shop windows gave it the appearance of
Words: 12:day-light in a new form. "What street is this?" we asked. "Cheapside,"
Words: 13:was the reply. The street was thronged, and every body seemed to be
Words: 14:going at a rapid rate, as if there was something of importance at the
Words: 11:end of the journey. Flying vehicles of every description passing each
Words: 12:other with a dangerous rapidity, men with lovely women at their sides,
Words: 12:children running about as if they had lost their parents--all gave a
Words: 13:brilliancy to the scene scarcely to be excelled. If one wished to get
Words: 13:jammed and pushed about, he need go no farther than Cheapside. But every
Words: 14:thing of the kind is done with a degree of propriety in London, that
Words: 15:would put the New Yorkers to blush. If you are run over in London, they
Words: 14:"beg your pardon;" if they run over you in New York, you are "laughed
Words: 16:at:" in London, if your hat is knocked off it is picked up and handed to
Words: 16:you; if, in New York, you must pick it up yourself. There is a lack of
Words: 11:good manners among Americans that is scarcely known or understood in
Words: 12:Europe. Our stay in the great metropolis gave us but little opportunity
Words: 13:of seeing much of the place; for in twenty-four hours after our arrival
Words: 14:we joined the rest of the delegates, and started on our visit to our
Words: 2:Gallic neighbours.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:We assembled at the London Bridge Railway Station on Tuesday morning the
Words: 15:21st, a few minutes past nine, to the number of 600. The day was fine,
Words: 11:and every eye seemed to glow with enthusiasm. Besides the delegates,
Words: 14:there were probably not less than 600 more, who had come to see the
Words: 13:company start. We took our seats and appeared to be waiting for nothing
Words: 14:but the iron-horse to be fastened to the train, when all at once, we
Words: 12:were informed that we must go to the booking-office and change our
Words: 13:tickets. At this news every one appeared to be vexed. This caused great
Words: 13:trouble; for on returning to the train many persons got into the wrong
Words: 10:carriages; and several parties were separated from their friends, while
Words: 15:not a few were calling out at the top of their voices, "Where is my
Words: 14:wife? Where is my husband? Where is my luggage? Who's got my boy? Is
Words: 14:this the right train?" "What is that lady going to do with all these
Words: 12:children?" asked the guard. "Is she a delegate: are all the children
Words: 12:delegates?" In the carriage where I had taken my seat was a
Words: 13:good-looking lady who gave signs of being very much annoyed. "It is just
Words: 16:so when I am going anywhere: I never saw the like in my life," said she.
Words: 8:"I really wish I was at home again."
Words: 0:
Words: 14:An hour had now elapsed, and we were still at the station. However, we
Words: 13:were soon on our way, and going at express speed. In passing through
Words: 11:Kent we enjoyed the scenery exceedingly, as the weather was altogether
Words: 14:in our favour; and the drapery which nature hung on the trees, in the
Words: 14:part through which we passed, was in all its gaiety. On our arrival at
Words: 12:Folkstone, we found three steamers in readiness to convey the party to
Words: 14:Boulogne. As soon as the train stopped, a general rush was made for the
Words: 15:steamers; and in a very short time the one in which I had embarked was
Words: 13:passing out of the harbour. The boat appeared to be conscious that we
Words: 15:were going on a holy mission, and seemed to be proud of her load. There
Words: 16:is nothing in this wide world so like a thing of life as a steamer, from
Words: 14:the breathing of her steam and smoke, the energy of her motion, and the
Words: 14:beauty of her shape; while the ease with which she is managed by the
Words: 14:command of a single voice, makes her appear as obedient as the horse is
Words: 3:to the rein.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:When we were about half way between the two great European Powers, the
Words: 13:officers began to gather the tickets. The first to whom he applied, and
Words: 13:who handed out his "Excursion Ticket," was informed that we were all in
Words: 14:the wrong boat. "Is this not one of the boats to take over the
Words: 11:delegates?" asked a pretty little lady, with a whining voice. "No,
Words: 13:Madam," said the captain. "You must look to the committee for your pay,"
Words: 14:said one of the company to the captain. "I have nothing to do with
Words: 10:committees," the captain replied. "Your fare, Gentlemen, if you please."
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Here the whole party were again thrown into confusion. "Do you hear
Words: 16:that? We are in the wrong boat." "I knew it would be so," said the Rev.
Words: 14:Dr. Ritchie, of Edinburgh. "It is indeed a pretty piece of work," said a
Words: 11:plain-looking lady in a handsome bonnet. "When I go travelling again,"
Words: 14:said an elderly looking gent with an eye-glass to his face, "I will take
Words: 14:the phaeton and old Dobbin." Every one seemed to lay the blame on the
Words: 11:committee, and not, too, without some just grounds. However, Mr. Sturge,
Words: 13:one of the committee, being in the boat with us, an arrangement was
Words: 14:entered into, by which we were not compelled to pay our fare the second
Words: 1:time.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:As we neared the French coast, the first object that attracted our
Words: 14:attention was the Napoleon Pillar, on the top of which is a statue of
Words: 11:the Emperor in the Imperial robes. We landed, partook of refreshment
Words: 12:that had been prepared for us, and again repaired to the railway
Words: 11:station. The arrangements for leaving Boulogne were no better than those
Words: 14:at London. But after the delay of another hour, we were again in motion.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:It was a beautiful country through which we passed from Boulogne to
Words: 10:Amiens. Straggling cottages which bespeak neatness and comfort abound on
Words: 11:every side. The eye wanders over the diversified views with unabated
Words: 11:pleasure, and rests in calm repose upon its superlative beauty. Indeed,
Words: 13:the eye cannot but be gratified at viewing the entire country from the
Words: 12:coast to the metropolis. Sparkling hamlets spring up as the steam horse
Words: 10:speeds his way, at almost every point--showing the progress of
Words: 8:civilization, and the refinement of the nineteenth century.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:We arrived at Paris a few minutes past twelve o'clock at night, when,
Words: 12:according to our tickets, we should have been there at nine. Elihu
Words: 13:Burritt, who had been in Paris some days, and who had the arrangements
Words: 14:there pretty much his own way, was at the station waiting the arrival of
Words: 13:the train, and we had demonstrated to us, the best evidence that he
Words: 13:understood his business. In no other place on the whole route had the
Words: 12:affairs been so well managed; for we were seated in our respective
Words: 14:carriages and our luggage placed on the top, and away we went to our
Words: 11:hotels without the least difficulty or inconvenience. The champion of an
Words: 11:"Ocean Penny Postage" received, as he deserved, thanks from the whole
Words: 5:company for his admirable management.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:The silence of the night was only disturbed by the rolling of the wheels
Words: 13:of the omnibus, as we passed through the dimly lighted streets. Where, a
Words: 14:few months before was to be seen the flash from the cannon and the
Words: 12:musket, and the hearing of the cries and groans behind the barricades,
Words: 12:was now the stillness of death--nothing save here and there a _gens
Words: 10:d'arme_ was to be seen going his rounds in silence.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:The omnibus set us down at the hotel Bedford, Rue de L'Arend, where,
Words: 13:although near one o'clock, we found a good supper waiting for us; and,
Words: 15:as I was not devoid of an appetite, I did my share towards putting it
Words: 4:out of the way.
Words: 0:
Words: 16:The next morning I was up at an early hour, and out on the Boulevards to
Words: 15:see what might be seen. As I was passing from the Bedford to the Place
Words: 15:de La Concord, all at once, and as if by some magic power, I found
Words: 12:myself in front of the most splendid edifice imaginable, situated at the
Words: 13:end of the Rue Nationale. Seeing a number of persons entering the church
Words: 12:at that early hour, and recognising among them my friend the President
Words: 13:of the Oberlin (Ohio) Institute, and wishing not to stray too far from
Words: 11:my hotel before breakfast, I followed the crowd and entered the
Words: 11:building. The church itself consisted of a vast nave, interrupted by
Words: 11:four pews on each side, fronted with lofty fluted Corinthian columns
Words: 9:standing on pedestals, supporting colossal arches, bearing up cupolas,
Words: 9:pierced with skylights and adorned with compartments gorgeously gilt;
Words: 11:their corners supported with saints and apostles in _alto relievo_. The
Words: 12:walls of the church were lined with rich marble. The different paintings
Words: 11:and figures, gave the interior an imposing appearance. On inquiry, I
Words: 15:found that I was in the Church of the Madeleine. It was near this spot
Words: 11:that some of the most interesting scenes occurred during the Revolution
Words: 12:of 1848, which dethroned Louis Philippe. Behind the Madeleine is a small
Words: 13:but well supplied market; and on an esplanade east of the edifice, a
Words: 8:flower market is held on Tuesdays and Fridays.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:       *       *       *       *       *
Words: 0:
Words: 9:The first session of the Peace Congress is over.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 13:The Congress met this morning at 11 o'clock, in the Salle St. Cecile,
Words: 13:Rue de la St. Lazare. The Parisians have no "Exeter Hall:" in fact,
Words: 15:there is no private hall in the city of any size, save this, where such
Words: 14:a meeting could be held. This hall has been fitted up for the occasion.
Words: 15:The room is long, and at one end has a raised platform; and at the
Words: 13:opposite end is a gallery, with seats raised one above another. On one
Words: 13:side of the hall was a balcony with sofas, which were evidently the
Words: 2:"reserved seats."
Words: 0:
Words: 13:The hall was filled at an early hour with the delegates, their friends,
Words: 11:and a good sprinkling of the French. Occasionally, small groups of
Words: 11:gentlemen would make their appearance on the platform, until it soon
Words: 12:appeared that there was little room left for others; and yet the
Words: 11:officers of the Convention had not come in. The different countries
Words: 10:were, many of them, represented here. England, France, Belgium, Germany,
Words: 10:Switzerland, Greece, Spain, and the United States, had each their
Words: 11:delegates. The Assembly began to give signs of impatience, when very
Words: 11:soon the train of officials made their appearance amid great applause.
Words: 13:Victor Hugo led the way, followed by M. Duguerry, curé of the Madeleine,
Words: 14:Elihu Burritt, and a host of others of less note. Victor Hugo took the
Words: 10:chair as President of the Congress, supported by Vice-presidents from
Words: 11:the several nations represented. Mr. Richard, the Secretary, read a dry
Words: 12:report of the names of societies, committees, &c., which was deemed the
Words: 4:opening of the Convention.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:The President then arose, and delivered one of the most impressive and
Words: 12:eloquent appeals in favour of peace that could possibly be imagined. The
Words: 14:effect produced upon the minds of all present was such as to make the
Words: 12:author of "_Notre Dame de Paris_" a great favourite with the Congress.
Words: 13:An English gentleman near me said to his friend, "I can't understand a
Words: 14:word of what he says, but is it not good?" Victor Hugo concluded his
Words: 13:speech amid the greatest enthusiasm on the part of the French, which was
Words: 11:followed by hurrahs in the old English style. The Convention was
Words: 10:successively addressed by the President of the Brussels Peace Society;
Words: 10:President Mahan of the Oberlin (Ohio) Institute, U.S.; Henry Vincent;
Words: 13:and Richard Cobden. The latter was not only the _lion_ of the English
Words: 12:delegation, but the great man of the Convention. When Mr. Cobden speaks,
Words: 14:there is no want of hearers. The great power of this gentleman lies in
Words: 12:his facts and his earnestness, for he cannot be called an eloquent
Words: 11:speaker. Mr. Cobden addressed the Congress first in French, then in
Words: 13:English; and, with the single exception of Mr. Ewart, M.P., was the only
Words: 13:one of the English delegation that could speak to the French in their
Words: 2:own language.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:The Congress was brought to a close at five o'clock, when the numerous
Words: 10:audience dispersed--the citizens to their homes, and the delegates to
Words: 3:see the sights.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:I was not a little amused at an incident that occurred at the close of
Words: 13:the first session. On the passage from America, there were in the same
Words: 11:steamer with me, several Americans, and among these, three or four
Words: 14:appeared to be much annoyed at the fact that I was a passenger, and
Words: 12:enjoying the company of white persons; and although I was not openly
Words: 13:insulted, I very often heard the remark, that "That nigger had better be
Words: 12:on his master's farm," and "What could the American Peace Society be
Words: 15:thinking about to send a black man as a delegate to Paris." Well, at the
Words: 14:close of the first sitting of the Convention, and just as I was leaving
Words: 14:Victor Hugo, to whom I had been introduced by an M.P., I observed near
Words: 15:me a gentleman with his hat in hand, whom I recognized as one of the
Words: 13:passengers who had crossed the Atlantic with me in the _Canada_, and who
Words: 13:appeared to be the most horrified at having a negro for a fellow
Words: 14:passenger. This gentleman, as I left M. Hugo, stepped up to me and said,
Words: 15:"How do you do, Mr. Brown?" "You have the advantage of me," said I. "Oh,
Words: 14:don't you know me; I was a fellow passenger with you from America; I
Words: 14:wish you would give me an introduction to Victor Hugo and Mr. Cobden." I
Words: 10:need not inform you that I declined introducing this pro-slavery
Words: 13:American to these distinguished men. I only allude to this, to show what
Words: 13:a change comes over the dreams of my white American brother, by crossing
Words: 15:the ocean. The man who would not have been seen walking with me in the
Words: 15:streets of New York, and who would not have shaken hands with me with a
Words: 13:pair of tongs while on the passage from the United States, could come
Words: 13:with hat in hand in Paris, and say, "I was your fellow-passenger." From
Words: 14:the Salle de St. Cecile, I visited the Column Vendome, from the top of
Words: 14:which I obtained a fine view of Paris and its environs. This is the
Words: 15:Bunker Hill Monument of Paris. On the top of this pillar is a statue of
Words: 11:the Emperor Napoleon, eleven feet high. The monument is built with
Words: 11:stone, and the outside covered with a metallic composition, made of
Words: 10:cannons, guns, spikes, and other warlike implements taken from the
Words: 11:Russians and Austrians by Napoleon. Above 1200 cannons were melted down
Words: 13:to help to create this monument of folly, to commemorate the success of
Words: 13:the French arms in the German Campaign. The column is in imitation of
Words: 14:the Trajan pillar at Rome, and is twelve feet in diameter at the base.
Words: 13:The door at the bottom of the pillar, and where we entered, was
Words: 11:decorated above with crowns of oak, surmounted by eagles, each weighing
Words: 13:500 lbs. The bas-relief of the shaft pursues a spiral direction to the
Words: 10:capitol, and displays, in a chronological order, the principal actions
Words: 13:of the French army, from the departure of the troops from Boulogne to
Words: 12:the battle of Austerlitz. The figures are near three feet high, and
Words: 12:their number said to be two thousand. This sumptuous monument stands on
Words: 12:a plinth of polished granite, surmounted by an iron railing; and, from
Words: 12:its size and position, has an imposing appearance when seen from any
Words: 4:part of the city.
Words: 0:
Words: 10:Everything here appears strange and peculiar--the people not less so
Words: 10:than their speech. The horses, carriages, furniture, dress, and manners,
Words: 12:are in keeping with their language. The appearance of the labourers in
Words: 10:caps, resembling nightcaps, seemed particularly strange to me. The women
Words: 11:without bonnets, and their caps turned the right side behind, had
Words: 13:nothing of the look of our American women. The prettiest woman I ever
Words: 12:saw was without a bonnet, walking on the Boulevards. While in Ireland,
Words: 15:and during the few days I was in England, I was struck with the marked
Words: 12:difference between the appearance of the women from those of my own
Words: 11:country. The American women are too tall, too sallow, and too
Words: 12:long-featured to be called pretty. This is most probably owing to the
Words: 13:fact that in America the people come to maturity earlier than in most
Words: 2:other countries.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:My first night in Paris was spent with interest. No place can present
Words: 10:greater street attractions than the Boulevards of Paris. The countless
Words: 12:number of cafés, with tables before the doors, and these surrounded by
Words: 12:men with long moustaches, with ladies at their sides, whose very smiles
Words: 12:give indication of happiness, together with the sound of music from the
Words: 14:gardens in the rear, tell the stranger that he is in a different country
Words: 3:from his own.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER IV.
Words: 0:
Words: 6:_Versailles--The Palace--Second Session of the Congress--Mr.
Words: 6:Cobden--Henry Vincent--M. Girardin--Abbe Duguerry--Victor Hugo: his
Words: 1:Speech._
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 3:                    VERSAILLES, _August 24_.
Words: 0:
Words: 10:After the Convention had finished its sittings yesterday, I accompanied
Words: 12:Mrs. M. C---- and sisters to Versailles, where they are residing during
Words: 13:the summer. It was really pleasing to see among the hundreds of strange
Words: 11:faces in the Convention, those distinguished friends of the slave from
Words: 1:Boston.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Mrs. C----'s residence is directly in front of the great palace where
Words: 14:so many kings have made their homes, the prince of whom was Louis XIV.
Words: 13:The palace is now unoccupied. No ruler has dared to take up his
Words: 12:residence here since Louis XVI. and Marie Antoinette were driven from it
Words: 15:by the mob from Paris on the 8th of October, 1789. The town looks like
Words: 13:the wreck of what it once was. At the commencement of the first
Words: 10:revolution, it contained one hundred thousand inhabitants; now it has
Words: 15:only about thirty thousand. It seems to be going back to what it was in
Words: 14:the time of Louis XIII., when in 1624 he built a small brick chateau,
Words: 12:and from it arose the magnificent palace which now stands here, and
Words: 11:which attracts strangers to it from all parts of the world.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:I arose this morning before the sun, and took a walk through the grounds
Words: 12:of the Palace, and remained three hours among the fountains and statuary
Words: 13:of this more than splendid place. But as I intend spending some days
Words: 12:here, and shall have better opportunities of seeing and judging, I will
Words: 8:defer my remarks upon Versailles for the present.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:Yesterday was a great day in the Congress. The session was opened by a
Words: 11:speech from M. Coquerel, the Protestant clergyman in Paris. His speech
Words: 12:was received with much applause, and seemed to create great sensation in
Words: 13:the Congress, especially at the close of his remarks, when he was seized
Words: 12:by the hand by the Abbe Duguerry, amid the most deafening and
Words: 10:enthusiastic applause of the entire multitude. The meeting was then
Words: 11:addressed in English by a short gentleman, of florid complexion. His
Words: 11:words seemed to come without the least difficulty, and his jestures,
Words: 10:though somewhat violent, were evidently studied; and the applause with
Words: 14:which he was greeted by the English delegation, showed that he was a man
Words: 12:of no little distinction among them. His speech was one continuous flow
Words: 11:of rapid, fervid eloquence, that seemed to fire every heart; and
Words: 12:although I disliked his style, I was prepossessed in his favour. This
Words: 11:was Henry Vincent, and his speech was in favour of disarmament.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:Mr. Vincent was followed by M. Emile de Girardin, the editor of _La
Words: 14:Presse_, in one of the most eloquent speeches that I ever heard; and his
Words: 11:exclamation of "Soldiers of Peace," drew thunders of applause from his
Words: 13:own countrymen. M. Girardin is not only the leader of the French press,
Words: 14:but is a writer on politics of great distinction, and a leader of no
Words: 10:inconsiderable party in the National Assembly; although still a young
Words: 11:man, apparently not more than thirty-eight or forty years of age.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:After a speech from Mr. Ewart, M.P., in French, and another from Mr.
Words: 13:Cobden in the same language, the Convention was brought to a close for
Words: 14:the day. I spent the morning yesterday, in visiting some of the lions of
Words: 11:the French capital, among which was the Louvre. The French Government
Words: 12:having kindly ordered, that the members of the Peace Congress should be
Words: 12:admitted free, and without ticket, to all the public works, I had
Words: 12:nothing to do but present my card of membership, and was immediately
Words: 1:admitted.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:The first room I entered, was nearly a quarter of a mile in length; is
Words: 12:known as the "Long Gallery," and contains some of the finest paintings
Words: 12:in the world. On entering this superb palace, my first impression was,
Words: 12:that all Christendom had been robbed, that the Louvre might make a
Words: 10:splendid appearance. This is the Italian department, and one would
Words: 13:suppose by its appearance that but few paintings had been left in Italy.
Words: 14:The entrance end of the Louvre was for a long time in an unfinished
Words: 11:state, but was afterwards completed by that master workman, the Emperor
Words: 11:Napoleon. It was long thought that the building would crumble into
Words: 12:decay, but the genius of the great Corsican rescued it from ruin.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:During our walk through the Louvre, we saw some twenty or thirty artists
Words: 11:copying paintings; some had their copies finished and were going out,
Words: 12:others half done, while many had just commenced. I remained some minutes
Words: 14:near a pretty French girl, who was copying a painting of a dog rescuing
Words: 12:a child from a stream of water into which it had fallen.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:I walked down one side of the hall and up the other, and was about
Words: 14:leaving, when I was informed that this was only one room, and that a
Words: 13:half-dozen more were at my service; but a clock on a neighbouring church
Words: 14:reminded me that I must quit the Louvre for the Salle de St. Cecile.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:       *       *       *       *       *
Words: 0:
Words: 14:This morning the Hall was filled at an early hour with rather a more
Words: 10:fashionable looking audience than on any former occasion, and all
Words: 12:appeared anxious for the Congress to commence its session, as it was
Words: 13:understood to be the last day. After the reading of several letters from
Words: 12:gentlemen, apologising for their not being able to attend, the speech of
Words: 13:Elihu Burritt was read by a son of M. Coquerel. I felt somewhat
Words: 12:astonished that my countryman, who was said to be master of fifty
Words: 12:languages, had to get some one to read his speech in French.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:The Abbe Duguerry now came forward amid great cheering, and said that
Words: 10:"the eminent journalist, Girardin, and the great English logician, Mr.
Words: 11:Cobden, had made it unnecessary for any further advocacy in that
Words: 12:assembly of the Peace cause--that if the principles laid down in the
Words: 13:resolutions were carried out, the work would be done. He said that the
Words: 9:question of general pacification was built on truth--truth which
Words: 13:emanated from God--and it were as vain to undertake to prevent air from
Words: 12:expanding as to check the progress of truth. It must and would
Words: 1:prevail."
Words: 0:
Words: 11:A pale, thin-faced gentleman next ascended the platform (or tribune, as
Words: 13:it was called) amid shouts of applause from the English, and began his
Words: 13:speech in rather a low tone, when compared with the sharp voice of
Words: 14:Vincent, or the thunder of the Abbe Duguerry. An audience is not apt to
Words: 11:be pleased or even contented with an inferior speaker, when surrounded
Words: 11:by eloquent men, and I looked every moment for manifestations of
Words: 12:disapprobation, as I felt certain that the English delegation had made a
Words: 11:mistake in applauding this gentleman who seemed to make such an
Words: 12:unpromising beginning. But the speaker soon began to get warm on the
Words: 14:subject, and even at times appeared as if he had spoken before. In a
Words: 13:very short time, with the exception of his own voice, the stillness of
Words: 11:death prevailed throughout the building. The speaker, in the delivery of
Words: 13:one of the most logical speeches made in the Congress, and despite of
Words: 13:his thin, sallow look, interested me much more than any whom I had
Words: 12:before heard. Towards the close of his remarks, he was several times
Words: 9:interrupted by manifestations of approbation; and finally concluded amid
Words: 11:great cheering. I inquired the gentleman's name, and was informed that
Words: 8:it was Edward Miall, editor of the _Nonconformist_.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:After speeches from several others, the great Peace Congress of 1849,
Words: 11:which had brought men together from nearly all the governments of
Words: 14:Europe, and many from America, was brought to a final close by a speech
Words: 11:from the President, returning thanks for the honour that had been
Words: 14:conferred upon him. He said, "My address shall be short, and yet I have
Words: 14:to bid you adieu! How resolve to do so? Here, during three days, have
Words: 11:questions of the deepest import been discussed, examined, probed to the
Words: 10:bottom; and during these discussions, counsels have been given to
Words: 12:governments which they will do well to profit by. If these days'
Words: 13:sittings are attended with no other result, they will be the means of
Words: 12:sowing in the minds of those present, gems of cordiality which must
Words: 10:ripen into good fruit. England, France, Belgium, Europe, and America,
Words: 14:would all be drawn closer by these sittings. Yet the moment to part has
Words: 14:arrived, but I can feel that we are strongly united in heart. But before
Words: 12:parting I may congratulate you and myself on the result of our
Words: 10:proceedings. We have been all joined together without distinction of
Words: 13:country; we have all been united in one common feeling during our three
Words: 13:days' communion. The good work cannot go back, it must advance, it must
Words: 14:be accomplished. The course of the future may be judged of by the sound
Words: 14:of the footsteps of the past. In the course of that day's discussion, a
Words: 13:reminiscence had been handed up to one of the speakers, that this was
Words: 11:the anniversary of the dreadful massacre of St. Bartholomew: the rev.
Words: 11:gentleman who was speaking turned away from the thought of that
Words: 11:sanguinary scene with pious horror, natural to his sacred calling. But
Words: 15:I, who may boast of firmer nerve, I take up the remembrance. Yes, it was
Words: 12:on this day, two hundred and seventy-seven years ago, that Paris was
Words: 14:roused from slumber by the sound of that bell which bore the name of
Words: 12:_cloche d'argent_. Massacre was on foot, seeking with keen eye for its
Words: 12:victim--man was busy in slaying man. That slaughter was called forth by
Words: 12:mingled passions of the worst description. Hatred of all kinds was there
Words: 11:urging on the slayer--hatred of a religious, a political, a personal
Words: 14:character. And yet on the anniversary of that same day of horror, and in
Words: 13:that very city whose blood was flowing like water, has God this day
Words: 12:given a rendezvous to men of peace, whose wild tumult is transformed
Words: 13:into order, and animosity into love. The stain of blood is blotted out,
Words: 14:and in its place beams forth a ray of holy light. All distinctions are
Words: 10:removed, and Papist and Huguenot meet together in friendly communion.
Words: 13:(Loud cheers.) Who that thinks of these amazing changes can doubt of the
Words: 12:progress that has been made? But whoever denies the force of progress
Words: 12:must deny God, since progress is the boon of Providence, and emanated
Words: 13:from the great Being above. I feel gratified for the change that has
Words: 14:been effected, and, pointing solemnly to the past, I say let this day be
Words: 11:ever held memorable--let the 24th of August, 1572, be remembered only
Words: 13:for the purpose of being compared with the 24th of August, 1849; and
Words: 14:when we think of the latter, and ponder over the high purpose to which
Words: 12:it has been devoted--the advocacy of the principles of peace--let us not
Words: 14:be so wanting in reliance on Providence as to doubt for one moment of
Words: 7:the eventful success of our holy cause."
Words: 0:
Words: 11:The most enthusiastic cheers followed this interesting speech. A vote of
Words: 12:thanks to the government, and three times three cheers, with Mr. Cobden
Words: 9:as "fugleman," ended the great Peace Congress of 1849.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Time for separating had arrived, yet all seemed unwilling to leave the
Words: 15:place, where for three days men of all creeds and of no creed had met
Words: 12:upon one common platform. In one sense the meeting was a glorious
Words: 12:one--in another, it was mere child's play; for the Congress had been
Words: 11:restricted to the discussion of certain topics. They were permitted to
Words: 13:dwell on the blessings of peace, but were not allowed to say anything
Words: 12:about the very subjects above all others that should have been brought
Words: 13:before the Congress. A French army had invaded Rome and put down the
Words: 13:friends of political and religious freedom, yet not a word was said in
Words: 12:reference to it. The fact is, the Committee permitted the Congress to
Words: 13:be _gagged_, before it had met. They put padlocks upon their own mouths,
Words: 14:and handed the keys to the government. And this was sorely felt by many
Words: 11:of the speakers. Richard Cobden, who had thundered his anathemas against
Words: 14:the Corn Laws of his own country, and against wars in every clime, had
Words: 14:to sit quiet in his fetters. Henry Vincent, who can make a louder speech
Words: 12:in favour of peace, than almost any other man, and whose denunciations
Words: 14:of "all war," have gained him no little celebrity with peace men, had to
Words: 13:confine himself to the blessings of peace. Oh! how I wished for a
Words: 8:Massachusetts atmosphere, a New England Convention platform, with
Words: 10:Wendell Phillips as the speaker, before that assembled multitude from
Words: 5:all parts of the world.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:But the Congress is over, and cannot now be made different; yet it is to
Words: 12:be hoped that neither the London Peace Committee, nor any other men
Words: 12:having the charge of getting up such another great meeting, will commit
Words: 4:such an error again.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER V.
Words: 0:
Words: 9:_M. de Tocqueville's Grand Soiree--Madame de Tocqueville--Visit of the
Words: 5:Peace Delegates to Versailles--The Breakfast--Speechmaking--The
Words: 3:Trianons--Waterworks--St. Cloud--The Fête._
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 3:                    VERSAILLES, _August 24_.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:The day after the close of the Congress, the delegates and their friends
Words: 12:were invited to a soirée by M. de Tocqueville, Minister for Foreign
Words: 12:Affairs, to take place on the next evening (Saturday); and, as my
Words: 13:coloured face and curly hair did not prevent my getting an invitation, I
Words: 9:was present with the rest of my peace brethren.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:Had I been in America, where colour is considered a crime, I would not
Words: 14:have been seen at such a gathering, unless as a servant. In company with
Words: 12:several delegates, we left the Bedford Hotel for the mansion of the
Words: 12:Minister of Foreign Affairs; and, on arriving, we found a file of
Words: 13:soldiers drawn up before the gate. This did not seem much like peace:
Words: 13:however, it was merely done in honour of the company. We entered the
Words: 11:building through massive doors and resigned ourselves into the hands of
Words: 11:good-looking waiters in white wigs; and, after our names were duly
Words: 13:announced, were passed from room to room till I was presented to Madame
Words: 11:de Tocqueville, who was standing near the centre of the large
Words: 13:drawing-room, with a bouquet in her hand. I was about passing on, when
Words: 11:the gentleman who introduced me intimated that I was an "American
Words: 11:slave." At the announcement of this fact the distinguished lady extended
Words: 14:her hand and gave me a cordial welcome--at the same time saying, "I hope
Words: 12:you feel yourself free in Paris." Having accepted an invitation to a
Words: 16:seat by the lady's side, who seated herself on a sofa, I was soon what I
Words: 11:most dislike, "the observed of all observers." I recognised among many
Words: 13:of my own countrymen, who were gazing at me, the American Consul, Mr.
Words: 12:Walsh. My position did not improve his looks. The company present on
Words: 11:this occasion were variously estimated at from one thousand to fifteen
Words: 10:hundred. Among these were the Ambassadors from the different countries
Words: 12:represented at the French metropolis, and many of the _elite_ of Paris.
Words: 13:One could not but be interested with the difference in dress, looks, and
Words: 11:manners of this assemblage of strangers whose language was as different
Words: 11:as their general appearance. Delight seemed to beam in every countenance
Words: 13:as the living stream floated from one room to another. The house and
Words: 11:gardens were illuminated in the most gorgeous manner. Red, yellow, blue,
Words: 12:green, and many other coloured lamps, suspended from the branches of the
Words: 14:trees in the gardens, gave life and animation to the whole scene out of
Words: 11:doors. The soirée passed off satisfactorily to all parties; and by
Words: 8:twelve o'clock I was again at my Hotel.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:       *       *       *       *       *
Words: 0:
Words: 11:Through the politeness of the government the members of the Congress
Words: 14:have not only had the pleasure of seeing all the public works free, and
Words: 11:without special ticket, but the palaces of Versailles and St. Cloud,
Words: 11:together with their splendid grounds, have been thrown open, and the
Words: 13:water-works set to playing in both places. This mark of respect for the
Words: 13:Peace movement is commendable in the French; and were I not such a
Words: 13:strenuous friend of free speech, this act would cause me to overlook the
Words: 11:padlocks that the government put upon our lips in the Congress.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:Two long trains left Paris at nine o'clock for Versailles; and at each
Words: 13:of the stations the company were loudly cheered by the people who had
Words: 12:assembled to see them pass. At Versailles, we found thousands at the
Words: 13:station, who gave us a most enthusiastic welcome. We were blessed with a
Words: 14:goodly number of the fair sex, who always give life and vigour to such
Words: 11:scenes. The train had scarcely stopped, ere the great throng were
Words: 12:wending their ways in different directions, some to the cafés to get
Words: 11:what an early start prevented their getting before leaving Paris, and
Words: 14:others to see the soldiers who were on review. But most bent their steps
Words: 4:towards the great palace.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:At eleven o'clock we were summoned to the _dejeuner_, which had been
Words: 11:prepared by the English delegates in honour of their American friends.
Words: 12:About six hundred sat down at the tables. Breakfast being ended, Mr.
Words: 12:Cobden was called to the chair, and several speeches were made. Many
Words: 13:who had not an opportunity to speak at the Congress, thought this a
Words: 12:good chance; and the written addresses which had been studied during the
Words: 11:passage from America, with the hope that they would immortalize their
Words: 11:authors before the great Congress, were produced at the breakfast table.
Words: 12:But speech-making was not the order of the day. Too many thundering
Words: 13:addresses had been delivered in the Salle de St. Cecile, to allow the
Words: 12:company to sit and hear dryly written and worse delivered speeches in
Words: 2:the Teniscourt.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:There was no limited time given to the speakers, yet no one had been on
Words: 14:his feet five minutes, before the cry was heard from all parts of the
Words: 12:house, "Time, time." One American was hissed down, another took his seat
Words: 14:with a red face, and a third opened his bundle of paper, looked around
Words: 14:at the audience, made a bow, and took his seat amid great applause. Yet
Words: 14:some speeches were made, and to good effect, the best of which was by
Words: 12:Elihu Burritt, who was followed by the Rev. James Freeman Clark. I
Words: 12:regretted very much that the latter did not deliver his address before
Words: 13:the Congress, for he is a man of no inconsiderable talent, and an
Words: 5:acknowledged friend of the slave.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:The cry of "The water-works are playing," "The water is on," broke up
Words: 13:the meeting, without even a vote of thanks to the Chairman; and the
Words: 12:whole party were soon revelling among the fountains and statues of Louis
Words: 13:XIV. Description would fail to give a just idea of the grandeur and
Words: 14:beauty of this splendid place. I do not think that any thing can surpass
Words: 12:the fountain of Neptune, which stands near the Grand Trianon. One may
Words: 12:easily get lost in wandering through the grounds of Versailles, but he
Words: 11:will always be in sight of some life-like statue. These monuments,
Words: 12:erected to gratify the fancy of a licentious king, make their appearance
Words: 14:at every turn. Two lions, the one overturning a wild boar, the other a
Words: 13:wolf, both the production of Fillen, pointed out to us the fountain of
Words: 14:Diana. But I will not attempt to describe to you any of the very
Words: 6:beautiful sculptured gods and goddesses here.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:With a single friend I paid a visit to the two Trianons. The larger was,
Words: 13:we were told, just as king Louis Philippe left it. One room was
Words: 11:splendidly fitted up for the reception of Her Majesty Queen Victoria;
Words: 13:who, it appeared, had promised a visit to the French Court; but the
Words: 12:French Monarch ran away from his throne before the time arrived. The
Words: 13:Grand Trianon is not larger than many noblemen's seats that may be seen
Words: 14:in a day's ride through any part of the British empire. The building has
Words: 10:only a ground floor, but its proportions are very elegant.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:We next paid our respects to the Little Trianon. This appears to be the
Words: 12:most Republican of any of the French palaces. I inspected this little
Words: 13:palace with much interest, not more for its beauty than because of its
Words: 11:having been the favourite residence of that purest of Princesses, best
Words: 10:of Queens, and most affectionate of mothers, Marie Antoinette. The
Words: 14:grounds and building may be said to be only a palace in miniature, and
Words: 13:this makes it still a more lovely spot. The building consists of a
Words: 10:square pavilion two stories high, and separated entirely from the
Words: 12:accessory buildings, which are on the left, and among them a pretty
Words: 14:chapel. But a wish to be with the multitude, who were roving among the
Words: 8:fountains, cut short my visit to the trianons.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:The day was very fine, and the whole party seemed to enjoy it. It was
Words: 11:said that there were more than one hundred thousand persons at
Words: 11:Versailles during the day. The company appeared to lose themselves with
Words: 11:the pleasure of walking among the trees, flower beds, fountains, and
Words: 13:statues. I met more than one wife seeking a lost husband, and _vice
Words: 12:versa_. Many persons were separated from their friends and did not meet
Words: 14:them again till at the hotels in Paris. In the train returning to Paris,
Words: 14:an old gentleman who was seated near me said, "I would rest contented if
Words: 9:I thought I should ever see my wife again!"
Words: 0:
Words: 14:At four o'clock we were _en route_ to St. Cloud, the much loved and
Words: 11:favourite residence of the Emperor Napoleon. It seemed that all Paris
Words: 14:had come out to St. Cloud to see how the English and Americans would
Words: 12:enjoy the playing of the water-works. Many kings and rulers of the
Words: 11:French have made St. Cloud their residence, but none have impressed
Words: 14:their images so indelibly upon it as Napoleon. It was here he was first
Words: 11:elevated to power, and here Josephine spent her most happy hours.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:The apartments where Napoleon was married to Marie Louise; the private
Words: 13:rooms of Josephine and Marie Antoinette, were all in turn shown to us.
Words: 12:While standing on the balcony looking at Paris one cannot wonder that
Words: 13:the Emperor should have selected this place as his residence, for a more
Words: 8:lovely spot cannot be found than St. Cloud.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:The palace is on the side of a hill, two leagues from Paris, and so
Words: 12:situated that it looks down upon the French capital. Standing, as we
Words: 12:did, viewing Paris from St. Cloud, and the setting sun reflecting upon
Words: 14:the domes, spires, and towers of the city of fashion, made us feel that
Words: 12:this was the place from which the monarch should watch his subjects.
Words: 14:From the hour of arrival at St. Cloud till near eight o'clock, we were
Words: 10:either inspecting the splendid palace or roaming the grounds and
Words: 12:gardens, whose beautiful walks and sweet flowers made it appear a very
Words: 3:Paradise on earth.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:At eight o'clock the water-works were put in motion, and the variagated
Words: 10:lamps with their many devices, displaying flowers, stars, and wheels,
Words: 12:all with a brilliancy that can scarcely be described, seemed to throw
Words: 13:everything in the shade we had seen at Versailles. At nine o'clock the
Words: 13:train was announced, and after a good deal of jamming and pushing about,
Words: 8:we were again on the way to Paris.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER VI.
Words: 0:
Words: 7:_The Tuileries--Place de la Concorde--The Egyptian Obelisk--Palais
Words: 10:Royal--Residence of Robespierre--A Visit to the Room in which Charlotte
Words: 9:Corday killed Marat--Church de Notre Dame--Palais de Justice--Hotel des
Words: 3:Invalids--National Assembly--The Elysee._
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 3:                    PARIS, _August 28_.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:Yesterday morning I started at an early hour for the Palace of the
Words: 13:Tuileries. A show of my card of membership of the Congress (which had
Words: 13:carried me through so many of the public buildings) was enough to gain
Words: 14:me immediate admission. The attack of the mob on the palace, on the 20th
Words: 15:of June, 1792, the massacre of the Swiss guard on the 10th of August of
Words: 14:the same year, the attack by the people in July 1830, together with the
Words: 12:recent flight of king Louis Philippe and family, made me anxious to
Words: 4:visit the old pile.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:We were taken from room to room, until the entire building had been
Words: 12:inspected. In front of the Tuileries, are a most magnificent garden and
Words: 14:grounds. These were all laid out by Louis XIV., and are left nearly as
Words: 11:they were during that monarch's reign. Above fifty acres surrounded by
Words: 14:an iron rail fence, fronts the Place de la Concorde, and affords a place
Words: 12:of promenade for the Parisians. I walked the pleasing grounds, and saw
Words: 12:hundreds of well dressed persons walking under the shade of the great
Words: 14:chestnuts, or sitting on chairs which were kept to let at two sous a
Words: 12:piece. Near by is the Place de Carrousel, noted for its historical
Words: 8:remembrances. Many incidents connected with the several revolutions
Words: 12:occurred here, and it is pointed out as the place where Napoleon
Words: 11:reviewed that formidable army of his before its departure for Russia.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:From the Tuileries, I took a stroll through the Place de la Concorde,
Words: 14:which has connected with it so many acts of cruelty, that it made me
Words: 15:shudder as I passed over its grounds. As if to take from one's mind the
Words: 13:old associations of this place, the French have erected on it, or rather
Words: 13:given a place to, the celebrated obelisk of Luxor, which now is the
Words: 12:chief attraction on the grounds. The obelisk was brought from Egypt at
Words: 12:an enormous expense; for which purpose a ship was built, and several
Words: 13:hundred men employed above three years in its removal. It is formed of
Words: 13:the finest red syenite, and covered on each side with three lines of
Words: 7:hieroglyphic inscriptions, commemorative of Sesostris--the middle lines
Words: 11:being the most deeply cut and most carefully finished; and the
Words: 12:characters altogether number more than 1600. The obelisk is of a single
Words: 14:stone, is 72 feet in height, weighs 500,000 lbs., and stands on a block
Words: 14:of granite that weighs 250,000 lbs. He who can read Latin will see that
Words: 13:the monument tells its own story, but to me its characters were all
Words: 1:blank.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:It would be tedious to follow the history of this old and venerated
Words: 13:stone, which was taken from the quarry 1550 years before the birth of
Words: 12:Christ; placed in Thebes; its removal; the journey to the Nile, and
Words: 13:down the Nile; thence to Cherbourg, and lastly its arrival in Paris on
Words: 12:the 23d of December, 1833--just one year before I escaped from slavery.
Words: 15:The obelisk was raised on the spot where it now stands, on the 25th of
Words: 12:October, 1836, in the presence of Louis Philippe and amid the greetings
Words: 3:of 160,000 persons.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:Having missed my dinner, I crossed over to the Palais Royal, to a dining
Words: 14:saloon, and can assure you that a better dinner may be had there for
Words: 14:five francs, than can be got in New York for twice that sum, and
Words: 14:especially if the person who wants the dinner is a coloured man. I found
Words: 9:no prejudice against my complexion in the Palais Royal.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:Many of the rooms in this once abode of Royalty, are most splendidly
Words: 9:furnished, and decorated with valuable pictures. The likenesses of
Words: 11:Madame de Stael, J.J. Rousseau, Cromwell, and Francis I., are among
Words: 1:them.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:       *       *       *       *       *
Words: 0:
Words: 10:After several unsuccessful attempts to-day, in company with R.D. Webb,
Words: 11:Esq., to seek out the house where once resided the notorious
Words: 13:Robespierre, I was fortunate enough to find it, but not until I had
Words: 14:lost the company of my friend. The house is No. 396, Rue St. Honore,
Words: 13:opposite the Church of the Assumption. It stands back, and is reached by
Words: 12:entering a court. During the first revolution it was occupied by M.
Words: 13:Duplay, with whom Robespierre lodged. The room used by the great man of
Words: 14:the revolution, was pointed out to me. It is small, and the ceiling low,
Words: 14:with two windows looking out upon the court. The pin upon which the blue
Words: 13:coat once hung, is still in the wall. While standing there, I could
Words: 11:almost imagine that I saw the great "Incorruptible," sitting at the
Words: 12:small table composing those speeches which gave him so much power and
Words: 7:influence in the Convention and the Clubs.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:Here, the disciple of Rousseau sat and planned how he should outdo his
Words: 13:enemies and hold on to his friends. From this room he went forth,
Words: 14:followed by his dog Brunt, to take his solitary walk in a favourite and
Words: 10:neighbouring field, or to the fiery discussions of the National
Words: 12:Convention. In the same street, is the house in which Madame Roland--one
Words: 3:of Robespierre's victims--resided.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:A view of the residence of one of the master spirits of the French
Words: 12:revolution inclined me to search out more, and therefore I proceeded to
Words: 11:the old town, and after winding through several small streets--some of
Words: 15:them so narrow as not to admit more than one cab at a time--I found
Words: 14:myself in the Rue de L'Ecole de Medecine, and standing in front of house
Words: 13:No. 20. This was the residence, during the early days of the revolution,
Words: 8:of that bloodthirsty demon in human form, Marat.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:I said to a butcher, whose shop was underneath, that I wanted to see La
Words: 16:Chambre de Marat. He called out to the woman of the house to know if I
Words: 14:could be admitted, and the reply was, that the room was used as a
Words: 7:sleeping apartment, and could not be seen.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:As this was private property, my blue card of membership to the Congress
Words: 13:was not available. But after slipping a franc into the old lady's hand,
Words: 14:I was informed that the room was now ready. We entered a court and
Words: 14:ascended a flight of stairs, the entrance to which is on the right; then
Words: 13:crossing to the left, we were shown into a moderate-sized room on the
Words: 14:first floor, with two windows looking out upon a yard. Here it was where
Words: 13:the "Friend of the People" (as he styled himself,) sat and wrote those
Words: 12:articles that appeared daily in his journal, urging the people to "hang
Words: 14:the rich upon lamp posts." The place where the bath stood, in which he
Words: 13:was bathing at the time he was killed by Charlotte Corday, was pointed
Words: 13:out to us; and even something representing an old stain of blood was
Words: 15:shown as the place where he was laid when taken out of the bath. The
Words: 12:window, behind whose curtains the heroine hid, after she had plunged the
Words: 15:dagger into the heart of the man whom she thought was the cause of the
Words: 13:shedding of so much blood by the guillotine, was pointed out with a
Words: 8:seeming degree of pride by the old woman.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:With my Guide Book in hand, I again went forth to "hunt after new
Words: 1:fancies."
Words: 0:
Words: 5:       *       *       *       *       *
Words: 0:
Words: 11:After walking over the ground where the guillotine once stood, cutting
Words: 13:off its hundred and fifty heads per day, and then visiting the place
Words: 11:where some of the chief movers in that sanguinary revolution once
Words: 13:lived, I felt little disposed to sleep, when the time for it had
Words: 14:arrived. However, I was out this morning at an early hour, and on the
Words: 12:Champs Elysees; and again took a walk over the place where the
Words: 11:guillotine stood, when its fatal blade was sending so many unprepared
Words: 12:spirits into eternity. When standing here, you have the Palace of the
Words: 14:Tuileries on one side, the arch on the other; on a third, the classic
Words: 12:Madeleine; and on the fourth, the National Assembly. It caused my blood
Words: 14:to chill, the idea of being on the identical spot where the heads of
Words: 14:Louis XVI. and his Queen, after being cut off, were held up to satisfy
Words: 10:the blood-thirsty curiosity of the two hundred thousand persons that
Words: 13:were assembled on the Place de la Revolution. Here Royal blood flowed as
Words: 13:it never did before or since. The heads of patricians and plebians, were
Words: 12:thrown into the same basket, without any regard to birth or station.
Words: 12:Here Robespierre and Danton had stood again and again, and looked their
Words: 13:victims in the face as they ascended the scaffold; and here, these same
Words: 14:men had to mount the very scaffold that they had erected for others. I
Words: 13:wandered up the Seine, till I found myself looking at the statue of
Words: 14:Henry the IV. over the principal entrance of the Hotel de Ville. When we
Words: 12:take into account the connection of the Hotel de Ville with the
Words: 13:different revolutions, we must come to the conclusion, that it is one of
Words: 12:the most remarkable buildings in Paris. The room was pointed out where
Words: 12:Robespierre held his counsels, and from the windows of which he could
Words: 13:look out upon the Place de Greve, where the guillotine stood before its
Words: 13:removal to the Place de la Concorde. The room is large, with gilded
Words: 8:hangings, splendid old-fashioned chandeliers, and a chimney-piece with
Words: 10:fine antiquated carvings, that give it a venerable appearance. Here
Words: 12:Robespierre not only presided at the counsels that sent hundreds to the
Words: 13:guillotine; but from this same spot, he, with his brother St. Just and
Words: 11:others, were dragged before the Committee of Public Safety, and thence
Words: 8:to the guillotine, and justice and revenge satisfied.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:The window from which Lafayette addressed the people in 1830, and
Words: 14:presented to them Louis Philippe, as the king, was shown to us. Here the
Words: 9:poet, statesman, philosopher and orator, Lamartine, stood in February
Words: 12:1848, and, by the power of his eloquence, succeeded in keeping the
Words: 12:people quiet. Here he forced the mob, braved the bayonets presented to
Words: 12:his breast, and, by his good reasoning, induced them to retain the
Words: 11:tri-coloured flag, instead of adopting the red flag, which he considered
Words: 4:the emblem of blood.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:Lamartine is a great heroic genius, dear to liberty and to France; and
Words: 11:successive generations, as they look back upon the revolution of 1848,
Words: 12:will recall to memory the many dangers which nothing but his dauntless
Words: 10:courage warded off. The difficulties which his wisdom surmounted, and
Words: 12:the good service that he rendered to France, can never be adequately
Words: 13:estimated or too highly appreciated. It was at the Hotel de Ville that
Words: 9:the Republic of 1848 was proclaimed to the people.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:I next paid my respects to the Column of July that stands on the spot
Words: 14:formerly occupied by the Bastile. It is 163 feet in height, and on the
Words: 16:top is the Genius of Liberty, with a torch in his right hand, and in the
Words: 13:left a broken chain. After a fatiguing walk up a winding stair, I
Words: 12:obtained a splendid view of Paris from the top of the column.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:I thought I should not lose the opportunity of seeing the Church de
Words: 14:Notre Dame while so near to it, and, therefore, made it my next rallying
Words: 10:point. No edifice connected with religion has had more interesting
Words: 12:incidents occurring in it than this old church. Here Pope Pius VII.
Words: 11:placed the Imperial Crown on the head of the Corsican--or rather
Words: 14:Napoleon took the Crown from his hands and placed it on his own head.
Words: 14:Satan dragging the wicked to ----; the rider on the red horse at the
Words: 12:opening of the second seal; the blessedness of the saints; and several
Words: 10:other striking sculptured figures were among the many curiosities in
Words: 13:this splendid place. A hasty view from the gallery concluded my visit to
Words: 3:the Notre Dame.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:Leaving the old church I strayed off in a direction towards the Seine,
Words: 11:and passed by an old looking building of stately appearance, and
Words: 13:recognised, among a throng passing in and out, a number of the members
Words: 14:of the Peace Congress. I joined a party entering, and was soon in the
Words: 13:presence of men with gowns on, and men with long staffs in their
Words: 12:hands--and on inquiry found that I was in the Palais de Justice;
Words: 12:beneath which is the Conciergerie, a noted prison. Louis XVI. and Marie
Words: 8:Antoinette were tried and condemned to death here.
Words: 0:
Words: 10:A bas-relief, by Cortat, representing Louis in conference with his
Words: 13:Counsel, is here seen. But I had visited too many places of interest
Words: 13:during the day to remain long in a building surrounded by officers of
Words: 8:justice, and took a stroll upon the Boulevards.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:The Boulevards may be termed the Regent Street of Paris, or a New Yorker
Words: 12:would call them Broadway. While passing a café, my German friend Faigo,
Words: 11:whose company I had enjoyed during the passage from America, recognised
Words: 16:me, and I sat down and took a cup of delicious coffee for the first time
Words: 15:on the side walk, in sight of hundreds who were passing up and down the
Words: 11:street every hour. From three till eleven o'clock, P.M., the Boulevards
Words: 13:are lined with men and women sitting before the doors of the saloons
Words: 14:drinking their coffee or wines, or both at the same time, as fancy may
Words: 13:dictate. All Paris appeared to be on the Boulevards, and looking as if
Words: 8:the great end of this life was enjoyment.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:       *       *       *       *       *
Words: 0:
Words: 16:Anxious to see as much as possible of Paris in the limited time I had to
Words: 14:stay in it, I hired a cab yesterday morning and commenced with the Hotel
Words: 12:des Invalids, a magnificent building, within a few minutes' walk of the
Words: 11:National Assembly. On each side of the entrance gate are figures
Words: 10:representing nations conquered by Louis XIV., with colossal statues of
Words: 13:Mars and Minerva. The dome on the edifice is the loftiest in Paris--the
Words: 7:height from the ground being 323 feet.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:Immediately below the dome is the tomb of the man at whose word the
Words: 13:world turned pale. A statue of the Emperor Napoleon stands in the second
Words: 7:piazza, and is of the finest bronze.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:This building is the home of the pensioned soldiers of France. It was
Words: 15:enough to make one sick at the idea of war, to look upon the mangled
Words: 14:bodies of these old soldiers. Men with arms and no legs; others had legs
Words: 12:but no arms; some with canes and crutches, and some wheeling themselves
Words: 12:about in little hand carts. About three thousand of the decayed soldiers
Words: 14:were lodged in the Hotel des Invalids, at the time of my visit. Passing
Words: 15:the National Assembly on my return, I spent a moment or two in it. The
Words: 10:interior of this building resembles an amphitheatre. It is constructed
Words: 12:to accommodate 900 members, each having a separate desk. The seat upon
Words: 13:which the Duchesse of Orleans, and her son, the Comte de Paris, sat,
Words: 11:when they visited the National Assembly after the flight of Louis
Words: 11:Philippe, was shown with considerable alacrity. As I left the building,
Words: 14:I heard that the President of the Republic was on the point of leaving
Words: 14:the Elysee for St. Cloud, and with the hope of seeing the "Prisoner of
Words: 11:Ham," I directed my cabman to drive me to the Elysee.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:In a few moments we were between two files of soldiers, and entering the
Words: 15:gates of the palace. I called out to the driver and told him to stop;
Words: 17:but I was too late, for we were now in front of the massive doors of the
Words: 13:palace, and a liveried servant opened the cab door, bowed, and asked if
Words: 12:I had an engagement with the President. You may easily "guess" his
Words: 15:surprise when I told him no. In my best French, I asked the cabman why
Words: 15:he had come to the palace, and was answered, "You told me to." By this
Words: 13:time a number had gathered round, all making inquiries as to what I
Words: 14:wanted. I told the driver to retrace his steps, and, amid the shrugs of
Words: 12:their shoulders, the nods of their heads, and the laughter of the
Words: 12:soldiers, I left the Elysee without even a sight of the President's
Words: 14:mustaches for my trouble. This was only one of the many mistakes I made
Words: 3:while in Paris.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER VII.
Words: 0:
Words: 8:_The Chateau at Versailles--Private apartments of Marie Antoinette--The
Words: 8:Secret Door--Paintings of Raphael and David--Arc de Triomphe--Beranger
Words: 2:the Poet._
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 3:                    VERSAILLES, _August 31_.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:Here I am, within ten leagues of Paris, spending the time pleasantly in
Words: 12:viewing the palace and grounds of the great Chateau of Louis XIV.
Words: 12:Fifty-seven years ago, a mob, composed of men, women, and boys, from
Words: 13:Paris, stood in front of this palace and demanded that the king should
Words: 14:go with them to the capital. I have walked over the same ground where
Words: 12:the one hundred thousand stood on that interesting occasion. I have been
Words: 12:upon the same balcony, and stood by the window from which Maria
Words: 11:Antoinette looked out upon the mob that were seeking her life.
Words: 0:
Words: 16:Anxious to see as much of the palace as I could, and having an offer of
Words: 13:the company of my young friend, Henry G. Chapman, to go through the
Words: 14:palace with me, I set out early yesterday morning, and was soon in the
Words: 13:halls that had often been trod by Royal feet. We passed through the
Words: 12:private, as well as the public, apartments, through the secret door by
Words: 13:which Marie Antoinette had escaped from the mob of 1792, and viewed the
Words: 12:room in which her faithful guards were killed, while attempting to save
Words: 13:their Royal mistress. I took my seat in one of the little parlour
Words: 13:carriages that had been used in days of yore for the Royal children;
Words: 12:while my friend, H.G. Chapman, drew me across the room. The superb
Words: 12:apartments are not now in use. Silence is written upon these walls,
Words: 13:although upon them are suspended the portraits of men of whom the world
Words: 2:has heard.
Words: 0:
Words: 10:Paintings, representing Napoleon in nearly all his battles, are here
Words: 13:seen; and wherever you see the Emperor, there you will also find Murat,
Words: 12:with his white plume waving above. Callot's painting of the battle of
Words: 12:Marengo, Hue's of the retaking of Genoa, and Bouchat's of the 18th
Words: 12:Brumaire, are of the highest order; while David has transmitted his fame
Words: 12:to posterity, by his splendid painting of the Coronation of Napoleon and
Words: 12:Josephine in Notre Dame. When I looked upon the many beautiful paintings
Words: 14:of the last named artist, that adorn the halls of Versailles, I did not
Words: 13:wonder that his fame should have saved his life, when once condemned and
Words: 12:sentenced to death during the reign of terror. The guillotine was robbed
Words: 13:of its intended victim, but the world gained a great painter. As Boswell
Words: 13:transmitted his own name to posterity with his life of Johnson, so has
Words: 11:David left his, with the magnificent paintings that are now suspended
Words: 13:upon the walls of the palaces of the Louvre, the Tuileries, St. Cloud,
Words: 6:Versailles, and even the little Elysee.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:After strolling from room to room, we found ourselves in the Salle du
Words: 13:Sacre, Diane, Salon de Mars, de Mercure, and d'Apollon. I gazed with my
Words: 15:eyes turned to the ceiling till I was dizzy. The Salon de la Guerre is
Words: 11:covered with the most beautiful representations that the mind of man
Words: 13:could conceive, or the hand accomplish. Louis XIV. is here in all his
Words: 12:glory. No Marie Antoinette will ever do the honours in these halls
Words: 1:again.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:After spending a whole day in the Palace and several mornings in the
Words: 13:Gardens, I finally bid adieu to the bronze statue of Louis XIV. that
Words: 12:stands in front of the Palace, and left Versailles, probably for ever.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:       *       *       *       *       *
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 3:                    PARIS, _September 2_.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:I am now on the point of quitting the French Metropolis. I have occupied
Words: 15:the last two days in visiting places of note in the city. I could not
Words: 13:resist the inclination to pay a second visit to the Louvre. Another hour
Words: 11:was spent in strolling through the Italian Hall and viewing the
Words: 10:master-workmanship of Raphael, the prince of painters. Time flies, even
Words: 15:in such a place as the Louvre with all its attractions; and before I had
Words: 14:seen half that I wished, a ponderous clock near by reminded me of an
Words: 11:engagement, and I reluctantly tore myself from the splendours of the
Words: 1:place.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:During the rest of the day I visited the Jardin des Plantes, and spent
Words: 13:an hour and a half pleasantly in walking among plants, flowers, and in
Words: 13:fact everything that could be found in any garden in France. From this
Words: 14:place we passed by the column of the Bastile, and paid our respects to
Words: 13:the Bourse, or Exchange, one of the most superb buildings in the city.
Words: 14:The ground floor and sides of the Bourse, are of fine marble, and the
Words: 13:names of the chief cities in the world are inscribed on the medallions,
Words: 13:which are under the upper cornice. The interior of the edifice has a
Words: 7:most splendid appearance as you enter it.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:The Cemetery of Père la Chaise was too much talked of by many of our
Words: 17:party at the Hotel for me to pass it by, so I took it after the Bourse.
Words: 13:Here lie many of the great marshals of France--the resting place of each
Words: 13:marked by the monument that stands over it, except one, which is marked
Words: 15:only by a weeping willow and a plain stone at its head. This is the
Words: 15:grave of Marshal Ney. I should not have known that it was his, but some
Words: 12:unknown hand had written with black paint, "Bravest of the Brave," on
Words: 13:the unlettered stone that stands at the head of the man who followed
Words: 12:Napoleon through nearly all his battles, and who was shot after the
Words: 13:occupation of Paris by the allied army. Peace to his ashes. During my
Words: 12:ramble through this noted place, I saw several who were hanging fresh
Words: 10:wreaths of everlasting flowers on the tombs of the departed.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:A ride in an omnibus down the Boulevards, and away up the Champs
Words: 13:Elysees, brought me to the Arc de Triomphe; and after ascending a flight
Words: 12:of one hundred and sixty-one steps, I was overlooking the city of
Words: 10:statuary. This stupendous monument was commenced by Napoleon in 1806;
Words: 14:and in 1811 it had only reached the cornice of the base, where it
Words: 13:stopped, and it was left for Louis Philippe to finish. The first stone
Words: 14:of this monument was laid on the 15th of August, 1806, the birth-day of
Words: 13:the man whose battles it was intended to commemorate. A model of the
Words: 13:arch was erected for Napoleon to pass through as he was entering the
Words: 11:city with Maria Louisa, after their marriage. The inscriptions on the
Words: 12:monument are many, and the different scenes here represented are all of
Words: 11:the most exquisite workmanship. The genius of War is summoning the
Words: 11:obedient nations to battle. Victory is here crowning Napoleon after his
Words: 12:great success in 1810. Fame stands here recording the exploits of the
Words: 12:warrior, while conquered cities lie beneath the whole. But it would take
Words: 14:more time than I have at command to give anything like a description of
Words: 5:this magnificent piece of architecture.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:That which seems to take most with Peace Friends, is the portion
Words: 12:representing an old man taming a bull for agricultural labour; while a
Words: 12:young warrior is sheathing his sword, a mother and children sitting at
Words: 10:his feet, and Minerva crowned with laurels, stands shedding her
Words: 11:protecting influence over them. The erection of this regal monument is
Words: 13:wonderful, to hand down to posterity the triumphs of the man whom we
Words: 14:first hear of as a student in the military school at Brienne, whom in
Words: 14:1784 we see in the Ecole Militaire, founded by Louis XV. in 1751; whom
Words: 17:again we find at No. 5, Quai de Court, near Rue de Mail; and in 1794 as
Words: 16:a lodger at No. 19, Rue de la Michandère. From this he goes to the Hotel
Words: 12:Mirabeau, Rue du Dauphin, where he resided when he defeated his enemies
Words: 12:on the 13th Vendimaire. The Hotel de la Colonade, Rue Neuve des
Words: 12:Capuchins is his next residence, and where he was married to Josephine.
Words: 12:From this hotel he removed to his wife's dwelling in the Rue
Words: 12:Chanteriene, No. 52. In 1796 the young general started for Italy, where
Words: 12:his conquests paved the way for the ever memorable 18th Brumaire, that
Words: 13:made him dictator of France. Napoleon was too great now to be satisfied
Words: 13:with private dwellings, and we next trace him to the Elysee, St. Cloud,
Words: 9:Versailles, the Tuileries, Fontainbleau, and finally, came his decline,
Words: 7:which I need not relate to you.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:After visiting the Gobelins, passing through its many rooms, seeing here
Words: 13:and there a half-finished piece of tapestry; and meeting a number of the
Words: 12:members of the late Peace Congress, who, like myself had remained behind
Words: 13:to see more of the beauties of the French capital than could be
Words: 11:overtaken during the Convention week. I accepted an invitation to dine
Words: 13:with a German gentleman at the Palais Royal, and was soon revelling amid
Words: 15:the luxuries of the table. I was glad that I had gone to the Palais
Words: 14:Royal, for here I had the honour of an introduction to M. Beranger, the
Words: 13:poet; and although I had to converse with him through an interpreter, I
Words: 13:enjoyed his company very much. "The people's poet," as he is called, is
Words: 14:apparently about seventy years of age, bald on the top of the head, and
Words: 12:rather corpulent, but of active look, and in the enjoyment of good
Words: 13:health. Few writers in France have done better service to the cause of
Words: 12:political and religious freedom, than Pierre Jean de Beranger. He is the
Words: 10:dauntless friend and advocate of the down-trodden poor and oppressed,
Words: 12:and has often incurred the displeasure of the Government by the arrows
Words: 14:that he has thrown into their camp. He felt what he wrote; it came
Words: 13:straight from his heart, and went directly to the hearts of the people.
Words: 11:He expressed himself strongly opposed to slavery, and said, "I don't
Words: 12:see how the Americans can reconcile slavery with their professed love of
Words: 11:freedom." Dinner out of the way, a walk through the different
Words: 14:apartments, and a stroll over the court, and I bade adieu to the Palais
Words: 13:Royal, satisfied that I should partake of many worse dinners than I had
Words: 5:helped to devour that day.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Few nations are more courteous than the French. Here the stranger, let
Words: 14:him come from what country he may, and be ever so unacquainted with the
Words: 15:people and language, he is sure of a civil reply to any question that he
Words: 13:may ask. With the exception of the egregious blunder I have mentioned of
Words: 15:the cabman driving me to the Elysee, I was not laughed at once while in
Words: 1:France.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER VIII.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:_Departure from Paris--Boulogne--Folkstone--London--Geo. Thompson, Esq.,
Words: 6:M.P.--Hartwell House--Dr. Lee--Cottage of the Peasant--Windsor
Words: 7:Castle--Residence of Wm. Penn--England's First Welcome--Heath Lodge--The
Words: 3:Bank of England._
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 3:                    LONDON, _Sept. 8th_.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:The sun had just appeared from behind a cloud and was setting, and its
Words: 12:reflection upon the domes and spires of the great buildings in Paris
Words: 11:made everything appear lovely and sublime, as the train, with almost
Words: 11:lightning speed, was bringing me from the French metropolis. I gazed
Words: 14:with eager eyes to catch a farewell glance of the tops of the regal
Words: 14:palaces through which I had passed, during a stay of fifteen days in the
Words: 2:French capital.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:A pleasant ride of four hours brought us to Boulogne, where we rested
Words: 15:for the night. The next morning I was up at an early hour, and out
Words: 11:viewing the town. Boulogne could present but little attraction, after a
Words: 14:fortnight spent in seeing the lions of Paris. A return to the hotel, and
Words: 12:breakfast over, we stepped on board the steamer, and were soon crossing
Words: 13:the channel. Two hours more, and I was safely seated in a railway
Words: 11:carriage, _en route_ to the English metropolis. We reached London at
Words: 11:mid-day, where I was soon comfortably lodged at 22, Cecil Street,
Words: 11:Strand. As the London lodging-houses seldom furnish dinners, I lost no
Words: 12:time in seeking out a dining-saloon, which I had no difficulty in
Words: 14:finding in the Strand. It being the first house of the kind I had
Words: 14:entered in London, I was not a little annoyed at the politeness of the
Words: 13:waiter. The first salutation I had, after seating myself in one of the
Words: 12:stalls, was, "Ox tail, Sir; gravy soup; carrot soup, Sir; roast beef;
Words: 12:roast pork; boiled beef; roast lamb; boiled leg of mutton, Sir, with
Words: 12:caper sauce; jugged hare, Sir; boiled knuckle of veal and bacon; roast
Words: 10:turkey and oyster sauce; sucking pig, Sir; curried chicken; harrico
Words: 12:mutton, Sir." These, and many other dishes which I have forgotten, were
Words: 14:called over with a rapidity that would have done credit to one of our
Words: 14:Yankee pedlars, in crying his wares in a New England village. I was so
Words: 13:completely taken by surprise, that I asked for a "bill of fare," and
Words: 14:told him to leave me. No city in the world furnishes a cheaper, better,
Words: 11:and quicker meal for the weary traveller, than a London eating-house.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:       *       *       *       *       *
Words: 0:
Words: 11:After spending a day in looking about through this great thoroughfare,
Words: 12:the Strand, I sallied forth with letters of introduction, with which I
Words: 11:had been provided by my friends before leaving America; and following
Words: 15:the direction of one, I was soon at No. 6, A, Waterloo Place. A moment
Words: 16:more, and I was in the presence of one of whom I had heard much, and
Words: 14:whose name is as familiar to the friends of the slave in the United
Words: 13:States, as household words. Although I had never seen him before, yet I
Words: 14:felt a feeling akin to love for the man who had proclaimed to the
Words: 10:oppressors of my race in America, the doctrine of _immediate
Words: 11:emancipation_ for the slaves of the great Republic. On reaching the
Words: 15:door, I sent in my letter; and it being fresh from the hands of William
Words: 12:Lloyd Garrison, the champion of freedom in the New World, was calculated
Words: 14:to insure me a warm reception at the hands of the distinguished M.P. for
Words: 14:the Tower Hamlets. Mr. Thompson did not wait for the servant to show me
Words: 16:in; but met me at the door himself, and gave me a hearty shake of the
Words: 13:hand, at the same time saying, "Welcome to England. How did you leave
Words: 16:Garrison." I need not add, that Mr. T. gave me the best advice, as to my
Words: 14:course in Great Britain; and how I could best serve the cause of my
Words: 10:enslaved countrymen. I never enjoyed three hours more agreeably than
Words: 14:those I spent with Mr. T. on the occasion of my first visit. George
Words: 12:Thompson's love of freedom, his labours in behalf of the American slave,
Words: 13:the negroes of the West Indies, and the wronged millions of India, are
Words: 14:too well known to the people of both hemispheres, to need a word of
Words: 11:comment from me. With the single exception of the illustrious Garrison,
Words: 12:no individual is more loved and honoured by the coloured people of
Words: 7:America, and their friends than Mr. Thompson.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:A few days after my arrival in London, I received an invitation from
Words: 15:John Lee, Esq., LL.D., whom I had met at the Peace Congress in Paris, to
Words: 15:pay him a visit at his seat, near Aylesbury; and as the time was "fixed"
Words: 16:by the Dr., I took the train on the appointed day, on my way to Hartwell
Words: 1:House.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:I had heard much of the aristocracy of England, and must confess that I
Words: 12:was not a little prejudiced against them. On a bright sunshine day,
Words: 13:between the hours of twelve and two, I found myself seated in a
Words: 10:carriage, my back turned upon Aylesbury, the vehicle whirling rapidly
Words: 14:over the smooth macadamised road, and I on my first visit to an English
Words: 13:gentleman. Twenty minutes' ride, and a turn to the right, and we were
Words: 13:amid the fine old trees of Hartwell Park; one having suspended from its
Words: 9:branches, the national banners of several different countries; among
Words: 14:them, the "Stars and Stripes. I felt glad that my own country's flag had
Words: 6:a place there, although Campbell's lines"--
Words: 0:
Words: 5:     "United States, your banner wears,
Words: 4:      Two emblems,--one of fame;
Words: 6:      Alas, the other that it bears,
Words: 5:      Reminds us of your shame.
Words: 6:      The white man's liberty in types,
Words: 5:      Stands blazoned by your stars;
Words: 7:      But what's the meaning of your stripes,
Words: 4:      They mean your Negro-scars"--
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 12:were at the time continually running through my mind. Arrived at the
Words: 13:door, and we received what every one does who visits Dr. Lee--a hearty
Words: 13:welcome. I was immediately shown into a room with a lofty ceiling, hung
Words: 13:round with fine specimens of the Italian masters, and told that this was
Words: 11:my apartment. Hartwell House stands in an extensive park, shaded with
Words: 14:trees, that made me think of the oaks and elms in an American forest,
Words: 14:and many of whose limbs had been trimmed and nursed with the best of
Words: 12:care. This was for seven years the residence of John Hampden the
Words: 12:patriot, and more recently that of Louis XVIII., during his exile in
Words: 13:this country. The house is built on a very extensive scale, and is
Words: 13:ornamented in the interior with carvings in wood of many of the kings
Words: 14:and princes of bygone centuries. A room some 60 feet by 25 contains a
Words: 10:variety of articles that the Dr. has collected together--the whole
Words: 13:forming a museum that would be considered a sight in the Western States
Words: 2:of America.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:The morning after my arrival at Hartwell I was up at an early hour--in
Words: 10:fact, before any of the servants--wandering about through the vast
Words: 13:halls, and trying to find my way out, in which I eventually succeeded,
Words: 13:but not, however, without aid. It had rained the previous night, and the
Words: 13:sun was peeping through a misty cloud as I strolled through the park,
Words: 13:listening to the sweet voices of the birds that were fluttering in the
Words: 13:tops of the trees, and trimming their wings for a morning flight. The
Words: 16:silence of the night had not yet been broken by the voice of man; and I
Words: 13:wandered about the vast park unannoyed, except by the dew from the grass
Words: 14:that wet my slippers. Not far from the house I came abruptly upon a
Words: 11:beautiful little pond of water, where the gold fish were flouncing
Words: 12:about, and the gentle ripples glittering in the sunshine looked like so
Words: 7:many silver minnows playing on the surface.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:While strolling about with pleasure, and only regretting that my dear
Words: 13:daughters were not with me to enjoy the morning's walk, I saw the
Words: 14:gardener on his way to the garden. I followed him, and was soon feasting
Words: 12:my eyes upon the richest specimens of garden scenery. There were the
Words: 11:peaches hanging upon the trees that were fastened to the wall;
Words: 12:vegetables, fruit, and flowers were there in all their bloom and beauty;
Words: 13:and even the variegated geranium of a warmer clime, was there in its
Words: 13:hothouse home, and seemed to have forgotten that it was in a different
Words: 14:country from its own. Dr. Lee shows great taste in the management of his
Words: 13:garden. I have seldom seen a more splendid variety of fruits and flowers
Words: 12:in the southern States of America, than I saw at Hartwell House.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:I should, however, state that I was not the only guest at Hartwell
Words: 12:during my stay. Dr. Lee had invited several others of the American
Words: 12:delegation to the Peace Congress, and two or three of the French
Words: 12:delegates who were on a visit to England, were enjoying the Doctor's
Words: 13:hospitality. Dr. Lee is a staunch friend of Temperance, as well as of
Words: 13:the cause of universal freedom. Every year he treats his tenantry to a
Words: 13:dinner, and I need not add that these are always conducted on the
Words: 4:principle of total abstinence.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:During the second day we visited several of the cottages of the work
Words: 14:people, and in these I took no little interest. The people of the United
Words: 12:States know nothing of the real condition of the labouring classes of
Words: 12:England. The peasants of Great Britain are always spoken of as belonging
Words: 14:to the soil. I was taught in America that the English labourer was no
Words: 13:better off than the slave upon a Carolina rice-field. I had seen the
Words: 11:slaves in Missouri huddled together, three, four, and even five families
Words: 16:in a single room not more than 15 by 25 feet square, and I expected to
Words: 13:see the same in England. But in this I was disappointed. After visiting
Words: 15:a new house that the Doctor was building, he took us into one of the
Words: 12:cottages that stood near the road, and gave us an opportunity, of
Words: 13:seeing, for the first time, an English peasant's cot. We entered a low
Words: 12:whitewashed room, with a stone floor that showed an admirable degree of
Words: 13:cleanness. Before us was a row of shelves filled with earthen dishes and
Words: 13:pewter spoons, glittering as if they had just come from under the hand
Words: 16:of a woman of taste. A Cobden loaf of bread, that had just been left by
Words: 14:the baker's boy, lay upon an oaken table which had been much worn away
Words: 13:with the scrubbing brush; while just above lay the old family bible that
Words: 12:had been handed down from father to son, until its possession was
Words: 12:considered of almost as great value as its contents. A half-open door,
Words: 12:leading into another room, showed us a clean bed; the whole presenting
Words: 12:as fine a picture of neatness, order, and comfort, as the most
Words: 11:fastidious taste could wish to see. No occupant was present, and
Words: 11:therefore I inspected everything with a greater degree of freedom. In
Words: 15:front of the cottage was a small grass plot, with here and there a bed
Words: 14:of flowers, cheated out of its share of sunshine by the tall holly that
Words: 15:had been planted near it. As I looked upon the home of the labourer, my
Words: 11:thoughts were with my enslaved countrymen. What a difference, thought I,
Words: 13:there is between the tillers of the soil in England and America. There
Words: 12:could not be a more complete refutation of the assertion that the
Words: 12:English labourer is no better off than the American slave, than the
Words: 14:scenes that were then before me. I called the attention of one of my
Words: 14:American friends to a beautiful rose near the door of the cot, and said
Words: 13:to him, "The law that will protect that flower will also guard and
Words: 15:protect the hand that planted it." He knew that I had drank deep of the
Words: 15:cup of slavery, was aware of what I meant, and merely nodded his head in
Words: 10:reply. I never experienced hospitality more genuine, and yet more
Words: 12:unpretending, than was meted out to me while at Hartwell. And the
Words: 10:favourable impression made on my own mind, of the distinguished
Words: 12:proprietor of Hartwell Park, was nearly as indelible as my humble name
Words: 13:that the Doctor had engraven in a brick, in the vault beneath the
Words: 4:Observatory in Hartwell House.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:On my return to London I accepted an invitation to join a party on a
Words: 12:visit to Windsor Castle; and taking the train at the Waterloo Bridge
Words: 12:Station, we were soon passing through a pleasant part of the country.
Words: 12:Arrived at the castle, we committed ourselves into the hands of the
Words: 9:servants, and were introduced into Her Majesty's State apartments,
Words: 9:Audience Chamber, Vandyck Room, Waterloo Chambers, St. George's Hall,
Words: 12:Gold Pantry, and many others whose names I have forgotten. In wandering
Words: 13:about the different apartments I lost my company, and in trying to find
Words: 12:them, passed through a room in which hung a magnificent portrait of
Words: 13:Charles I., by Vandyck. The hum and noise of my companions had ceased,
Words: 15:and I had the scene and silence to myself. I looked in vain for the
Words: 13:king's evil genius (Cromwell), but he was not in the same room. The
Words: 12:pencil of Sir Peter Lely has left a splendid full-length likeness of
Words: 15:James II. George IV. is suspended from a peg in the wall, looking as if
Words: 12:it was fresh from the hands of Sir Thomas Lawrence, its admirable
Words: 15:painter. I was now in St. George's Hall, and I gazed upward to view the
Words: 13:beautiful figures on the ceiling, until my neck was nearly out of joint.
Words: 12:Leaving this room, I inspected with interest the ancient _keep_ of the
Words: 14:castle. In past centuries this part of the palace was used as a prison.
Words: 12:Here James the First of Scotland was detained a prisoner for eighteen
Words: 12:years. I viewed the window through which the young prince had often
Words: 12:looked to catch a glimpse of the young and beautiful Lady Jane,
Words: 11:daughter of the Earl of Somerset, with whom he was enamoured.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:From the top of the Round Tower I had a fine view of the surrounding
Words: 12:country. Stoke Park, once the residence of that great friend of humanity
Words: 12:and civilization, William Penn, was among the scenes that I viewed with
Words: 12:pleasure from Windsor Castle. Four years ago, when in the city of
Words: 12:Philadelphia, and hunting up the places associated with the name of this
Words: 11:distinguished man, and more recently when walking over the farm once
Words: 13:occupied by him on the banks of the Delaware, examining the old malt
Words: 12:house which is now left standing, because of the veneration with which
Words: 17:the name of the man who built it is held, I had no idea that I should
Words: 14:ever see the dwelling which he had occupied in the Old World. Stoke Park
Words: 14:is about four miles from Windsor, and is now owned by the Right Hon.
Words: 2:Henry Labouchere.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:The castle, standing as it does on an eminence, and surrounded by a
Words: 10:beautiful valley covered with splendid villas, has the appearance of
Words: 10:Gulliver looking down upon the Lilliputians. It rears its massive
Words: 12:towers and irregular walls over and above every other object; it stands
Words: 14:like a mountain in the desert. How full this old palace is of material
Words: 13:for thought! How one could ramble here alone, or with one or two
Words: 11:congenial companions, and enjoy a recapitulation of its history! But an
Words: 14:engagement to be at Croydon in the evening cut short my stay at Windsor,
Words: 12:and compelled me to return to town in advance of my party.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:       *       *       *       *       *
Words: 0:
Words: 14:Having met with John Morland, Esq., of Heath Lodge, at Paris, he gave me
Words: 11:an invitation to visit Croydon, and deliver a lecture on American
Words: 13:Slavery; and last evening, at eight o'clock, I found myself in a fine
Words: 13:old building in the town, and facing the first English audience that I
Words: 14:had seen in the sea-girt isle. It was my first welcome in England. The
Words: 12:assembly was an enthusiastic one, and made still more so by the
Words: 12:appearance of George Thompson, Esq., M.P., upon the platform. It is not
Words: 13:my intention to give accounts of my lectures or meetings in these pages.
Words: 13:I therefore merely say, that I left Croydon with a good impression of
Words: 13:the English, and Heath Lodge with a feeling that its occupant was one
Words: 6:of the most benevolent of men.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:The same party with whom I visited Windsor being supplied with a card of
Words: 14:admission to the Bank of England, I accepted an invitation to be one of
Words: 12:the company. We entered the vast building at a little past twelve
Words: 12:o'clock to-day. The sun threw into the large halls a brilliancy that
Words: 12:seemed to light up the countenances of the almost countless number of
Words: 13:clerks, who were at their desks, or serving persons at the counters. As
Words: 12:nearly all my countrymen who visit London pay their respects to this
Words: 14:noted institution, I shall sum up my visit to it, by saying that it
Words: 13:surpassed my highest idea of a bank. But a stroll through this monster
Words: 13:building of gold and silver brought to my mind an incident that occurred
Words: 9:to me a year after my escape from slavery.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:In the autumn of 1835, having been cheated out of the previous summer's
Words: 13:earnings, by the captain of the steamer in which I had been employed
Words: 14:running away with the money, I was, like the rest of the men, left
Words: 12:without any means of support during the winter, and therefore had to
Words: 12:seek employment in the neighbouring towns. I went to the town of
Words: 12:Monroe, in the state of Michigan, and while going through the principal
Words: 14:streets looking for work, I passed the door of the only barber in the
Words: 12:town, whose shop appeared to be filled with persons waiting to be
Words: 15:shaved. As there was but one man at work, and as I had, while employed
Words: 11:in the steamer, occasionally shaved a gentleman who could not perform
Words: 13:that office himself, it occurred to me that I might get employment here
Words: 11:as a journeyman barber. I therefore made immediate application for work,
Words: 18:but the barber told me he did not need a hand. But I was not to be put
Words: 13:off so easily, and after making several offers to work cheap, I frankly
Words: 17:told him, that if he would not employ me I would get a room near to him,
Words: 11:and set up an opposition establishment. This threat, however, made no
Words: 15:impression on the barber; and as I was leaving, one of the men who were
Words: 14:waiting to be shaved said, "If you want a room in which to commence
Words: 13:business, I have one on the opposite side of the street." This man
Words: 14:followed me out; we went over, and I looked at the room. He strongly
Words: 14:urged me to set up, at the same time promising to give me his
Words: 13:influence. I took the room, purchased an old table, two chairs, got a
Words: 14:pole with a red stripe painted around it, and the next day opened, with
Words: 11:a sign over the door, "Fashionable Hair-dresser from New York, Emperor
Words: 15:of the West." I need not add that my enterprise was very annoying to the
Words: 12:"shop over the way"--especially my sign, which happened to be the most
Words: 15:expensive part of the concern. Of course, I had to tell all who came in
Words: 13:that my neighbour on the opposite side did not keep clean towels, that
Words: 15:his razors were dull, and, above all, he had never been to New York to
Words: 14:see the fashions. Neither had I. In a few weeks I had the entire
Words: 12:business of the town, to the great discomfiture of the other barber.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:At this time, money matters in the Western States were in a sad
Words: 12:condition. Any person who could raise a small amount of money was
Words: 13:permitted to establish a bank, and allowed to issue notes for four times
Words: 12:the sum raised. This being the case, many persons borrowed money merely
Words: 12:long enough to exhibit to the bank inspectors, and the borrowed money
Words: 13:was returned, and the bank left without a dollar in its vaults, if,
Words: 13:indeed, it had a vault about its premises. The result was, that banks
Words: 12:were started all over the Western States, and the country flooded with
Words: 12:worthless paper. These were known as the "Wild Cat Banks." Silver coin
Words: 14:being very scarce, and the banks not being allowed to issue notes for a
Words: 13:smaller amount than one dollar, several persons put out notes from 6 to
Words: 11:75 cents in value; these were called "Shinplasters." The Shinplaster was
Words: 14:in the shape of a promissory note, made payable on demand. I have often
Words: 13:seen persons with large rolls of these bills, the whole not amounting to
Words: 13:more than five dollars. Some weeks after I had commenced business on my
Words: 12:"own hook," I was one evening very much crowded with customers; and
Words: 15:while they were talking over the events of the day, one of them said to
Words: 14:me, "Emperor, you seem to be doing a thriving business. You should do as
Words: 12:other business men, issue your Shinplasters." This, of course, as it was
Words: 13:intended, created a laugh; but with me it was no laughing matter, for
Words: 13:from that moment I began to think seriously of becoming a banker. I
Words: 14:accordingly went a few days after to a printer, and he, wishing to get
Words: 15:the job of printing, urged me to put out my notes, and showed me some
Words: 12:specimens of engravings that he had just received from Detroit. My head
Words: 13:being already filled with the idea of a bank, I needed but little
Words: 12:persuasion to set the thing finally afloat. Before I left the printer
Words: 14:the notes were partly in type, and I studying how I should keep the
Words: 10:public from counterfeiting them. The next day my Shinplasters were
Words: 12:handed to me, the whole amount being twenty dollars, and after being
Words: 13:duly signed were ready for circulation. At first my notes did not take
Words: 13:well; they were too new, and viewed with a suspicious eye. But through
Words: 14:the assistance of my customers, and a good deal of exertion on my own
Words: 12:part, my bills were soon in circulation; and nearly all the money
Words: 13:received in return for my notes was spent in fitting up and decorating
Words: 2:my shop.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Few bankers get through this world without their difficulties, and I was
Words: 15:not to be an exception. A short time after my money had been out, a
Words: 14:party of young men, either wishing to pull down my vanity, or to try
Words: 12:the soundness of my bank, determined to give it "a run." After
Words: 14:collecting together a number of my bills, they came one at a time to
Words: 14:demand other money for them, and I, not being aware of what was going
Words: 14:on, was taken by surprise. One day as I was sitting at my table,
Words: 13:strapping some new razors I had just got with the avails of my
Words: 11:"Shinplasters," one of the men entered and said, "Emperor, you will
Words: 14:oblige me if you will give me some other money for these notes of
Words: 12:yours." I immediately cashed the notes with the most worthless of the
Words: 15:Wild Cat money that I had on hand, but which was a lawful tender. The
Words: 12:young man had scarcely left when a second appeared with a similar
Words: 12:amount, and demanded payment. These were cashed, and soon a third came
Words: 15:with his roll of notes. I paid these with an air of triumph, although I
Words: 15:had but half a dollar left. I began now to think seriously what I should
Words: 14:do, or how to act, provided another demand should be made. While I was
Words: 13:thus engaged in thought, I saw the fourth man crossing the street, with
Words: 10:a handful of notes, evidently my "Shinplasters." I instantaneously shut
Words: 13:the door, and looking out of the window, said, "I have closed business
Words: 14:for the day: come to-morrow and I will see you." In looking across the
Words: 12:street, I saw my rival standing in his shop-door, grinning and clapping
Words: 12:his hands at my apparent downfall. I was completely "done _Brown_" for
Words: 17:the day. However, I was not to be "used up" in this way; so I escaped by
Words: 14:the back door, and went in search of my friend who had first suggested
Words: 15:to me the idea of issuing notes. I found him, told him of the difficulty
Words: 16:I was in, and wished him to point out a way by which I might extricate
Words: 13:myself. He laughed heartily, and then said, "You must act as all bankers
Words: 15:do in this part of the country." I inquired how they did, and he said,
Words: 14:"When your notes are brought to you, you must redeem them, and then send
Words: 14:them out and get other money for them; and, with the latter, you can
Words: 14:keep cashing your own Shinplasters." This was indeed a new job to me. I
Words: 11:immediately commenced putting in circulation the notes which I had just
Words: 12:redeemed, and my efforts were crowned with so much success, that before
Words: 12:I slept that night my "Shinplasters" were again in circulation, and my
Words: 7:bank once more on a sound basis.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:As I saw the clerks shovelling out the yellow coin upon the counters of
Words: 14:the Bank of England, and men coming in and going out with weighty bags
Words: 14:of the precious metal in their hands, or on their shoulders, I could not
Words: 11:but think of the great contrast between the monster Institution, within
Words: 13:whose walls I was then standing, and the Wild Cat Banks of America!
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER IX.
Words: 0:
Words: 8:_The British Museum--A Portrait--Night Reading--A Dark Day--A Fugitive
Words: 12:Slave on the Streets of London,--A Friend in the time of need._
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 3:                    LONDON, _Sept. 24_.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:I have devoted the past ten days to sight-seeing in the Metropolis--the
Words: 13:first two of which were spent in the British Museum. After procuring a
Words: 14:guide-book at the door as I entered, I seated myself on the first seat
Words: 15:that caught my eye, arranged as well as I could in my mind the different
Words: 13:rooms, and then commenced in good earnest. The first part I visited was
Words: 11:the Gallery of Antiquities, through to the north gallery, and thence
Words: 11:to the Lycian Room. This place is filled with tombs, bas-reliefs,
Words: 11:statues, and other productions of the same art. Venus, seated, and
Words: 13:smelling a lotus flower which she held in her hand, and attended by
Words: 14:three graces, put a stop to the rapid strides that I was making through
Words: 13:this part of the hall. This is really one of the most precious
Words: 14:productions of the art that I have ever seen. Many of the figures in
Words: 13:this room are very much mutilated, yet one can linger here for hours
Words: 13:with interest. A good number of the statues are of uncertain date; they
Words: 15:are of great value as works of art, and more so as a means of
Words: 11:enlightening much that has been obscure with respect to Lycia, an
Words: 7:ancient and celebrated country of Asia Minor.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:In passing through the eastern Zoological Gallery, I was surrounded on
Words: 13:every side by an army of portraits suspended upon the walls; and among
Words: 12:these was the Protector. The people of one century kicks his bones
Words: 12:through the streets of London, another puts his portrait in the British
Words: 12:Museum, and a future generation may possibly give him a place in
Words: 10:Westminster Abbey. Such is the uncertainty of the human character.
Words: 9:Yesterday, a common soldier--to-day, the ruler of an empire--to-morrow,
Words: 13:suspended upon the gallows. In an adjoining room I saw a portrait of
Words: 12:Baxter, which gives one a pretty good idea of the great Nonconformist.
Words: 12:In the same room hung a splendid modern portrait, without any intimation
Words: 14:in the guide-book of who it represented, or when it was painted. It was
Words: 15:so much like one whom I had seen, and on whom my affections were placed
Words: 14:in my younger days, that I obtained a seat from an adjoining room and
Words: 13:rested myself before it. After sitting half an hour or more, I wandered
Words: 14:to another part of the building, but only to return again to my "first
Words: 11:love," where I remained till the throng had disappeared one after
Words: 12:another, and the officer reminding me that it was time to close.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:It was eight o'clock before I reached my lodgings. Although fatigued by
Words: 12:the day's exertions, I again resumed the reading of Roscoe's "Leo X.,"
Words: 11:and had nearly finished seventy-three pages, when the clock on St.
Words: 13:Martin's Church apprised me that it was two. He who escapes from slavery
Words: 14:at the age of twenty years, without any education, as did the writer of
Words: 14:this letter, must read when others are asleep, if he would catch up with
Words: 15:the rest of the world. "To be wise," says Pope, "is but to know how
Words: 12:little can be known." The true searcher after truth and knowledge is
Words: 12:always like a child; although gaining strength from year to year, he
Words: 13:still "learns to labour and to wait." The field of labour is ever
Words: 12:expanding before him, reminding him that he has yet more to learn;
Words: 13:teaching him that he is nothing more than a child in knowledge, and
Words: 12:inviting him onward with a thousand varied charms. The son may take
Words: 12:possession of the father's goods at his death, but he cannot inherit
Words: 12:with the property the father's cultivated mind. He may put on the
Words: 13:father's old coat, but that is all: the immortal mind of the first
Words: 6:wearer has gone to the tomb.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:Property may be bequeathed, but knowledge cannot. Then let him who
Words: 14:would be useful in his day and generation be up and doing. Like the
Words: 11:Chinese student who learned perseverance from the woman whom he saw
Words: 14:trying to rub a crow-bar into a needle, so should we take the experience
Words: 13:of the past to lighten our feet through the paths of the future.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:The next morning at ten, I was again at the door of the great building;
Words: 13:was soon within its walls seeing what time would not allow of the
Words: 12:previous day. I spent some hours in looking through glass cases, viewing
Words: 14:specimens of minerals, such as can scarcely be found in any place out of
Words: 14:the British Museum. During this day I did not fail to visit the great
Words: 12:Library. It is a spacious room, surrounded with large glass cases filled
Words: 13:with volumes, whose very look tells you that they are of age. Around,
Words: 10:under the cornice, were arranged a number of old black-looking
Words: 13:portraits, in all probability the authors of some of the works in the
Words: 12:glass cases beneath. About the room were placed long tables, with stands
Words: 13:for reading and writing, and around these were a number of men busily
Words: 12:engaged in looking over some chosen author. Old men with grey hairs,
Words: 10:young men with mustaches--some in cloth, others in fustian, indicating
Words: 14:that men of different rank can meet here. Not a single word was spoken
Words: 11:during my stay, all appearing to enjoy the silence that reigned
Words: 13:throughout the great room. This is indeed a retreat from the world. No
Words: 15:one inquires who the man is who is at his side, and each pursues in
Words: 13:silence his own researches. The racing of pens over the sheets of paper
Words: 9:was all that disturbed the stillness of the occasion.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:From the Library I strolled to other rooms, and feasted my eyes on what
Words: 13:I had never before seen. He who goes over this immense building, cannot
Words: 13:do so without a feeling of admiration for the men whose energy has
Words: 11:brought together this vast and wonderful collection of things, the like
Words: 13:of which cannot be found in any other museum in the world. The
Words: 14:reflection of the setting sun against a mirror in one of the rooms, told
Words: 15:me that night was approaching, and I had but a moment in which to take
Words: 14:another look at the portrait that I had seen the previous day, and then
Words: 5:bade adieu to the Museum.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Having published the narrative of my life and escape from slavery, and
Words: 12:put it into the booksellers' hands--and seeing a prospect of a fair
Words: 15:sale, I ventured to take from my purse the last sovereign to make up a
Words: 14:small sum to remit to the United States, for the support of my daughter,
Words: 12:who is at school there. Before doing this, however, I had made
Words: 12:arrangements to attend a public meeting in the city of Worcester, at
Words: 13:which the mayor was to preside. Being informed by the friends of the
Words: 13:slave there, that I would, in all probability, sell a number of copies
Words: 13:of my book, and being told that Worcester was only ten miles from
Words: 13:London, I felt safe in parting with all but a few shillings, feeling
Words: 14:sure that my purse would soon be again replenished. But you may guess my
Words: 12:surprise when I learned that Worcester was above a hundred miles from
Words: 13:London, and that I had not retained money enough to defray my expenses
Words: 17:to the place. In my haste and wish to make up the ten pounds to send to
Words: 13:my children, I had forgotten that the payment for my lodgings would be
Words: 12:demanded before I should leave town. Saturday morning came; I paid my
Words: 12:lodging bill, and had three shillings and fourpence left; and out of
Words: 15:this sum I was to get three dinners, as I was only served with breakfast
Words: 13:and tea at my lodgings. Nowhere in the British empire do the people
Words: 15:witness as dark days as in London. It was on Monday morning, in the fore
Words: 13:part of October, as the clock on St. Martin's Church was striking ten,
Words: 13:that I left my lodgings, and turned into the Strand. The street lamps
Words: 15:were yet burning, and the shops were all lighted as if day had not made
Words: 12:its appearance. This great thoroughfare, as usual at this time of the
Words: 11:day, was thronged with business men going their way, and women
Words: 13:sauntering about for pleasure or for the want of something better to do.
Words: 15:I passed down the Strand to Charing Cross, and looked in vain to see the
Words: 14:majestic statue of Nelson upon the top of the great shaft. The clock on
Words: 11:St. Martin's Church struck eleven, but my sight could not penetrate
Words: 14:through the dark veil that hung between its face and me. In fact, day
Words: 12:had been completely turned into night; and the brilliant lights from the
Words: 11:shop windows almost persuaded me that another day had not appeared.
Words: 12:Turning, I retraced my steps, and was soon passing through the massive
Words: 16:gates of Temple Bar, wending my way to the city, when a beggar boy at my
Words: 13:heels accosted me for a half-penny to buy bread. I had scarcely served
Words: 15:the boy, when I observed near by, and standing close to a lamp post, a
Words: 12:coloured man, and from his general appearance I was satisfied that he
Words: 13:was an American. He eyed me attentively as I passed him, and seemed
Words: 14:anxious to speak. When I had got some distance from him I looked back,
Words: 14:and his eyes were still upon me. No longer able to resist the temptation
Words: 11:to speak with him, I returned, and commencing conversation with him,
Words: 14:learned a little of his history, which was as follows. He had, he said,
Words: 12:escaped from slavery in Maryland, and reached New York; but not feeling
Words: 13:himself secure there, he had, through the kindness of the captain of an
Words: 13:English ship, made his way to Liverpool; and not being able to get
Words: 14:employment there, he had come up to London. Here he had met with no
Words: 12:better success; and having been employed in the growing of tobacco, and
Words: 13:being unaccustomed to any other work, he could not get to labour in
Words: 16:England. I told him he had better try to get to the West Indies; but he
Words: 15:informed me that he had not a single penny, and that he had nothing to
Words: 16:eat that day. By this man's story, I was moved to tears; and going to a
Words: 12:neighbouring shop, I took from my purse my last shilling, changed it,
Words: 12:and gave this poor brother fugitive one-half. The poor man burst into
Words: 14:tears as I placed the sixpence in his hand, and said--"You are the first
Words: 15:friend I have met in London." I bade him farewell, and left him with a
Words: 15:feeling of regret that I could not place him beyond the reach of want. I
Words: 14:went on my way to the city, and while going through Cheapside, a streak
Words: 15:of light appeared in the east that reminded me that it was not night. In
Words: 14:vain I wandered from street to street, with the hope that I might meet
Words: 14:some one who would lend me money enough to get to Worcester. Hungry and
Words: 13:fatigued I was returning to my lodgings, when the great clock of St
Words: 12:Paul's Church, under whose shadow I was then passing, struck four. A
Words: 13:stroll through Fleet Street and the Strand, and I was again pacing my
Words: 14:room. On my return, I found a letter from Worcester had arrived in my
Words: 13:absence, informing me that a party of gentlemen would meet me the next
Words: 13:day on my reaching that place; and saying, "Bring plenty of books, as
Words: 12:you will doubtless sell a large number." The last sixpence had been
Words: 13:spent for postage stamps, in order to send off some letters to other
Words: 15:places, and I could not even stamp a letter in answer to the one last
Words: 13:from Worcester. The only vestige of money about me was a smooth farthing
Words: 14:that a little girl had given to me at the meeting at Croydon, saying,
Words: 14:"This is for the slaves." I was three thousand miles from home, with but
Words: 14:a single farthing in my pocket! Where on earth is a man without money
Words: 13:more destitute? The cold hills of the Arctic regions have not a more
Words: 10:inhospitable appearance than London to the stranger with an empty
Words: 14:pocket. But whilst I felt depressed at being in such a sad condition, I
Words: 14:was conscious that I had done right in remitting the last ten pounds to
Words: 14:America. It was for the support of those whom God had committed to my
Words: 17:care, and whom I love as I can no others. I had no friend in London to
Words: 13:whom I could apply for temporary aid. My friend, Mr. Thompson, was out
Words: 14:of town, and I did not know his address. The dark day was rapidly
Words: 14:passing away--the clock in the hall had struck six. I had given up all
Words: 14:hopes of reaching Worcester the next day, and had just rung the bell for
Words: 15:the servant to bring me some tea, when a gentle tap at the door was
Words: 11:heard--the servant entered, and informed me that a gentleman below was
Words: 16:wishing to see me. I bade her fetch a light and ask him up. The stranger
Words: 11:was my young friend Frederick Stevenson, son of the excellent minister
Words: 14:of the Borough Road Chapel. I had lectured in this chapel a few days
Words: 11:previous; and this young gentleman, with more than ordinary zeal and
Words: 12:enthusiasm for the cause of bleeding humanity, and respect for me, had
Words: 13:gone amongst his father's congregation and sold a number of copies of my
Words: 15:book, and had come to bring me the money. I wiped the silent tear from
Words: 14:my eyes as the young man placed the thirteen half-crowns in my hand. I
Words: 14:did not let him know under what obligation I was to him for this
Words: 14:disinterested act of kindness. He does not know to this day what aid he
Words: 16:has rendered to a stranger in a strange land, and I feel that I am but
Words: 12:discharging in a trifling degree, my debt of gratitude to this young
Words: 12:gentleman, in acknowledging my obligation to him. As the man who called
Words: 13:for bread and cheese, when feeling in his pocket for the last threepence
Words: 14:to pay for it, found a sovereign that he was not aware he possessed,
Words: 13:countermanded the order for the lunch, and bade them bring him the best
Words: 14:dinner they could get; so I told the servant when she brought the tea,
Words: 16:that I had changed my mind, and should go out to dine. With the means in
Words: 14:my pocket of reaching Worcester the next day, I sat down to dinner at
Words: 14:the Adelphi with a good cut of roast beef before me, and felt myself
Words: 11:once more at home. Thus ended a dark day in London.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER X.
Words: 0:
Words: 6:_The Whittington Club--Louis Blanc--Street Amusements--Tower of
Words: 4:London--Westminster Abbey--National Gallery--Dante--Sir Joshua
Words: 1:Reynolds._
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 3:                    LONDON, _October 10_.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:For some days past, Sol has not shown his face, clouds have obscured the
Words: 13:sky, and the rain has fallen in torrents, which has contributed much to
Words: 13:the general gloom. However, I have spent the time in as agreeable a
Words: 13:manner as I well could. Yesterday I fulfilled an engagement to dine with
Words: 12:a gentleman at the Whittington Club. One who is unacquainted with the
Words: 11:Club system as carried on in London, can scarcely imagine the
Words: 12:conveniences they present. Every member appears to be at home, and all
Words: 15:seem to own a share in the Club. There is a free-and-easy way with those
Words: 13:who frequent Clubs, and a licence given there that is unknown in the
Words: 13:drawing-room of the private mansion. I met the gentleman at the Club, at
Words: 12:the appointed hour, and after his writing my name in the visitors'
Words: 12:book, we proceeded to the dining-room, where we partook of a good
Words: 1:dinner.
Words: 0:
Words: 16:We had been in the room but a short time, when a small man, dressed in
Words: 13:black, with his coat buttoned up to the chin, entered the saloon, and
Words: 16:took a seat at the table hard by. My friend in a low whisper informed me
Words: 13:that this person was one of the French refugees. He was apparently not
Words: 11:more than thirty years of age, and exceedingly good looking--his person
Words: 12:being slight, his feet and hands very small and well shaped, especially
Words: 13:his hands, which were covered with kid gloves, so tightly drawn on, that
Words: 13:the points of the finger nails were visible through them. His face was
Words: 14:mild and almost womanly in its beauty, his eyes soft and full, his brow
Words: 12:open and ample, his features well defined, and approaching to the ideal
Words: 12:Greek in contour; the lines about his mouth were exquisitely sweet, and
Words: 11:yet resolute in expression; his hair was short--his having no mustaches
Words: 15:gave him nothing of the look of a Frenchman; and I was not a little
Words: 12:surprised when informed that the person before me was Louis Blanc. I
Words: 12:could scarcely be persuaded to believe that one so small, so child-like
Words: 13:in stature, had taken a prominent part in the Revolution of 1848. He
Words: 16:held in his hand a copy of _La Presse_, and as soon as he was seated,
Words: 13:opened it and began to devour its contents. The gentleman with whom I
Words: 14:was dining was not acquainted with him, but at the close of our dinner
Words: 8:he procured me an introduction through another gentleman.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:As we were returning to our lodgings, we saw in Exeter Street, Strand,
Words: 14:one of those exhibitions that can be seen in almost any of the streets
Words: 14:in the suburbs of the Metropolis, but which is something of a novelty to
Words: 13:those from the other side of the Atlantic. This was an exhibition of
Words: 12:"Punch and Judy." Everything was in full operation when we reached the
Words: 13:spot. A puppet appeared eight or ten inches from the waist upwards, with
Words: 10:an enormous face, huge nose, mouth widely grinning, projecting chin,
Words: 11:cheeks covered with grog blossoms, a large protuberance on his back,
Words: 11:another on his chest; yet with these deformities he appeared uncommonly
Words: 13:happy. This was Mr. Punch. He held in his right hand a tremendous
Words: 13:bludgeon, with which he amused himself by rapping on the head every one
Words: 12:who came within his reach. This exhibition seems very absurd, yet not
Words: 11:less than one hundred were present--children, boys, old men, and even
Words: 10:gentlemen and ladies, were standing by, and occasionally greeting the
Words: 12:performer with the smile of approbation. Mr. Punch, however, was not to
Words: 13:have it all his own way, for another and better sort of Punch-like
Words: 11:exhibition appeared a few yards off, that took away Mr. Punch's
Words: 11:audience, to the great dissatisfaction of that gentleman. This was an
Words: 12:exhibition called the Fantoccini, and far superior to any of the street
Words: 12:performances which I have yet seen. The curtain rose and displayed a
Words: 10:beautiful theatre in miniature, and most gorgeously painted. The organ
Words: 13:which accompanied it struck up a hornpipe, and a sailor, dressed in his
Words: 11:blue jacket, made his appearance and commenced keeping time with the
Words: 13:utmost correctness. This figure was not so long as Mr. Punch, but much
Words: 13:better looking. At the close of the hornpipe the little sailor made a
Words: 10:bow, and tripped off, apparently conscious of having deserved the
Words: 11:undivided applause of the bystanders. The curtain dropped; but in two
Words: 14:or three minutes it was again up, and a rope was discovered, extended on
Words: 14:two cross pieces, for dancing upon. The tune was changed to an air, in
Words: 12:which the time was marked, a graceful figure appeared, jumped upon the
Words: 12:rope with its balance pole, and displayed all the manoeuvres of an
Words: 13:expert performer on the tight rope. Many who would turn away in disgust
Words: 14:from Mr. Punch, will stand for hours and look at the performances of the
Words: 10:Fantoccini. If people, like the Vicar of Wakefield, will sometimes
Words: 13:"allow themselves to be happy," they can hardly fail to have a hearty
Words: 12:laugh at the drolleries of the Fantoccini. There may be degrees of
Words: 13:absurdity in the manner of wasting our time, but there is an evident
Words: 10:affectation in decrying these humble and innocent exhibitions, by those
Words: 15:who will sit till two or three in the morning to witness a pantomime at
Words: 2:a theatre-royal.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:       *       *       *       *       *
Words: 0:
Words: 10:An autumn sun shone brightly through a remarkably transparent atmosphere
Words: 13:this morning, which was a most striking contrast to the weather we have
Words: 16:had during the past three days; and I again set out to see some of the
Words: 12:lions of the city, commencing with the Tower of London. Every American,
Words: 14:on returning home from a visit to the old world, speaks with pride of
Words: 14:the places he saw while in Europe; and of the many resorts of interest
Words: 14:he has read of, few have made a more lasting impression upon his memory
Words: 13:than the Tower of London. The stories of the imprisoning of kings, and
Words: 11:queens, the murdering of princes, the torturing of men and women,
Words: 12:without regard to birth, education, or station, and of the burning and
Words: 15:rebuilding of the old pile, have all sunk deep into his heart. A walk of
Words: 13:twenty minutes, after being set down at the Bank by an omnibus, brought
Words: 16:me to the gate of the Tower. A party of friends who were to meet me
Words: 13:there had not arrived, so I had an opportunity of inspecting the grounds
Words: 13:and taking a good view of the external appearance of the old and
Words: 12:celebrated building. The Tower is surrounded by a high wall, and around
Words: 12:this a deep ditch partly filled with stagnated water. The wall incloses
Words: 11:twelve acres of ground on which stand the several towers, occupying,
Words: 13:with their walks and avenues, the whole space. The most ancient part of
Words: 13:the building is called the "White Tower," so as to distinguish it from
Words: 11:the parts more recently built. Its walls are seventeen feet in
Words: 11:thickness, and ninety-two in height, exclusive of the turrets, of which
Words: 12:there are four. My company arrived, and we entered the tower through
Words: 12:four massive gates, the innermost one being pointed out as the "Water,
Words: 13:or Traitors' Gate"--so called from the fact that it opened to the river,
Words: 12:and through it the criminals were usually brought to the prison within.
Words: 13:But this passage is now closed up. We visited the various apartments in
Words: 13:the old building. The room in the Bloody Tower, where the infant princes
Words: 14:were put to death by the command of their uncle, Richard III.; also, the
Words: 12:recess behind the gate where the bones of the young princes were
Words: 13:concealed, were shown to us. The warden of the prison who showed us
Words: 13:through, seemed to have little or no veneration for Henry VIII.; for he
Words: 15:often cracked a joke, or told a story at the expense of the murderer of
Words: 15:Anne Boleyn. The old man wiped the tear from his eye, as he pointed out
Words: 15:the grave of Lady Jane Grey. This was doubtless one of the best as well
Words: 13:as most innocent of those who lost their lives in the Tower; young,
Words: 13:virtuous, and handsome, she became a victim to the ambition of her own
Words: 14:and her husband's relations. I tried to count the names on the wall in
Words: 10:"Beauchamp's Tower," but they were too numerous. Anne Boleyn was
Words: 13:imprisoned here. The room in the "Brick Tower," where Lady Jane Grey was
Words: 13:imprisoned, was pointed out as a place of interest. We were next shown
Words: 13:into the "White Tower." We passed through a long room filled with many
Words: 11:things having a warlike appearance; and among them a number of
Words: 11:equestrian figures, as large as life, and clothed in armour and
Words: 13:trappings of the various reigns from Edward I. to James II., or from
Words: 12:1272 to 1685. Elizabeth, or the "Maiden Queen," as the warden called
Words: 14:her, was the most imposing of the group; she was on a cream coloured
Words: 12:charger. We left the Maiden Queen to examine the cloak upon which
Words: 13:General Wolf died, at the storming of Quebec. In this room Sir Walter
Words: 11:Raleigh was imprisoned, and here was written his "History of the
Words: 13:World." In his own hand, upon the wall, is written, "Be thou faithful
Words: 15:unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life." His Bible is still
Words: 13:shown, with these memorable lines written in it by himself a short time
Words: 3:before his death:--
Words: 0:
Words: 8:   "Even such is Time that takes on trust,
Words: 8:    Our youth, our joy, our all we have,
Words: 8:    And pays us but with age and dust;
Words: 7:    Who in the dark and silent grave,
Words: 7:    When we have wandered all our ways,
Words: 7:    Shuts up the story of our days."
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 10:Spears, battle-axes, pikes, helmets, targets, bows and arrows, and many
Words: 13:instruments of torture, whose names I did not learn, grace the walls of
Words: 14:this room. The block on which the Earl of Essex and Anne Boleyn were
Words: 12:beheaded, was shown among other objects of interest. A view of the
Words: 13:"Queen's Jewels" closed our visit to the Tower. The Gold Staff of St.
Words: 12:Edward, and the Baptismal Font used at the Royal christenings, made of
Words: 13:solid silver, and more than four feet high, were among the jewels here
Words: 14:exhibited. The Sword of Justice was there, as if to watch the rest of
Words: 12:the valuables. However, this was not the sword that Peter used. Our
Words: 10:acquaintance with De Foe, Sir Walter Raleigh, Chaucer, and James
Words: 11:Montgomery, through their writings, and the knowledge that they had been
Words: 12:incarcerated within the walls of the bastile that we were just leaving,
Words: 13:caused us to look back again and again upon its dark grey turrets.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:I closed the day with a look at the interior of St. Paul's Cathedral. A
Words: 15:service was just over, and we met a crowd coming out as we entered the
Words: 13:great building. "Service is over, and two pence for all that wants to
Words: 13:stay," was the first sound that caught our ears. In the Burlesque of
Words: 15:"Esmeralda," a man is met in the belfry of the Notre Dame at Paris, and
Words: 10:being asked for money by one of the vergers says:--
Words: 0:
Words: 7:   "I paid three pence at the door,
Words: 9:    And since I came in a great deal more:
Words: 8:    Upon my honour you have emptied my purse,
Words: 7:    St. Paul's Cathedral could not do worse."
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 14:I felt inclined to join in this sentiment before I left the church. A
Words: 13:fine statue of "Surly Sam" Johnson was one of the first things that
Words: 12:caught our eyes on looking around. A statue of Sir Edward Packenham,
Words: 15:who fell at the Battle of New Orleans, was on the opposite side of the
Words: 14:great hall. As we had walked over the ground where this General fell, we
Words: 12:viewed his statue with more than ordinary interest. We were taken from
Words: 12:one scene of interest to another, until we found ourselves in the
Words: 12:"Whispering Gallery." From the dome we had a splendid view of the
Words: 13:Metropolis of the world. A scaffold was erected up here to enable an
Words: 13:artist to take sketches from which a panorama of London was painted. The
Words: 13:artist was three years at work. The painting is now exhibited at the
Words: 13:Colosseum; but the brain of the artist was turned, and he died insane!
Words: 12:Indeed, one can scarcely conceive how it could be otherwise. You in
Words: 12:America have no idea of the immensity of this building. Pile together
Words: 13:half-a-dozen of the largest churches in New York or Boston, and you will
Words: 9:have but a faint representation of St. Paul's Cathedral.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:       *       *       *       *       *
Words: 0:
Words: 12:I have just returned from a stroll of two hours through Westminster
Words: 12:Abbey. We entered the building at a door near Poets' Corner, and,
Words: 11:naturally enough, looked around for the monuments of the men whose
Words: 10:imaginative powers have contributed so much to instruct and amuse
Words: 15:mankind. I was not a little disappointed in the few I saw. In almost any
Words: 12:church-yard you may see monuments and tombs far superior to anything in
Words: 12:the Poets' Corner. A few only have monuments. Shakspere, who wrote of
Words: 15:man to man, and for man to the end of time, is honoured with one.
Words: 11:Addison's monument is also there; but the greater number have nothing
Words: 11:more erected to their memories than busts or medallions. Poets' Corner
Words: 11:is not splendid in appearance, yet I observed visiters lingering about
Words: 15:it, as if they were tied to the spot by love and veneration for some
Words: 12:departed friend. All seemed to regard it as classic ground. No sound
Words: 13:louder than a whisper was heard during the whole time, except the verger
Words: 12:treading over the marble floor with a light step. There is great
Words: 12:pleasure in sauntering about the tombs of those with whom we are
Words: 11:familiar through their writings; and we tear ourselves from their ashes,
Words: 14:as we would from those of a bosom friend. The genius of these men
Words: 13:spreads itself over the whole panorama of Nature, giving us one vast and
Words: 14:varied picture, the colour of which will endure to the end of time. None
Words: 14:can portray like the poet the passions of the human soul. The statue of
Words: 12:Addison, clad in his dressing-gown, is not far from that of Shakspere.
Words: 14:He looks as if he had just left the study, after finishing some chosen
Words: 14:paper for the _Spectator_. This memento of a great man, was the work of
Words: 13:the British public. Such a mark of national respect was but justice to
Words: 13:one who has contributed more to purify and raise the standard of English
Words: 14:literature, than any man of his day. We next visited the other end of
Words: 11:the same transept, near the northern door. Here lie Mansfield, Chatham,
Words: 11:Fox, the second William Pitt, Grattan, Wilberforce, and a few other
Words: 12:statesmen. But, above all, is the stately monument to the Earl of
Words: 14:Chatham. In no other place so small, do so many great men lie together.
Words: 14:To these men, whose graves strangers from all parts of the world wish to
Words: 12:view, the British public are in a great measure indebted for England's
Words: 11:fame. The high pre-eminence which England has so long enjoyed and
Words: 12:maintained in the scale of empire, has constantly been the boast and
Words: 12:pride of the English people. The warm panegyrics that have been lavished
Words: 10:on her constitution and laws--the songs chaunted to celebrate her
Words: 12:glory--the lustre of her arms, as the glowing theme of her warriors--the
Words: 11:thunder of her artillery in proclaiming her moral prowess, her flag
Words: 12:being unfurled to every breeze and ocean, rolling to her shores the
Words: 12:tribute of a thousand realms--show England to be the greatest nation in
Words: 13:the world, and speak volumes for the great departed, as well as for
Words: 12:those of the living present. One requires no company, no amusements, no
Words: 14:books in such a place as this. Time and death have placed within those
Words: 13:walls sufficient to occupy the mind, if one should stay here a week.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:On my return, I spent an hour very pleasantly in the National Academy,
Words: 13:in the same building as the National Gallery. Many of the paintings here
Words: 13:are of a fine order. Oliver Cromwell looking upon the headless corpse of
Words: 12:King Charles I., appeared to draw the greatest number of spectators. A
Words: 15:scene from "As You Like it," was one of the best executed pieces we saw.
Words: 12:This was "Rosalind, Celia, and Orlando." The artist did himself and the
Words: 11:subject great credit. Kemble, in Hamlet, with that ever memorable skull
Words: 14:in his hand, was one of the pieces which we viewed with no little
Words: 12:interest. It is strange that Hamlet is always represented as a thin,
Words: 14:lean man, when the Hamlet of Shakspere was a fat, John Bull-kind of a
Words: 13:man. But the best piece in the Gallery was "Dante meditating the episode
Words: 11:of Francesca da Rimini and Paolo Malatesta, S'Inferno, Canto V." Our
Words: 12:first interest for the great Italian poet was created by reading Lord
Words: 12:Byron's poem, "The Lament of Dante." From that hour we felt like
Words: 10:examining everything connected with the great Italian poet. The history
Words: 13:of poets, as well as painters, is written in their works. The best
Words: 14:written life of Goldsmith is to be found in his poem of "The Traveller,"
Words: 12:and his novel of "The Vicar of Wakefield." Boswell could not have
Words: 13:written a better life of himself than he has done in giving the
Words: 15:Biography of Dr. Johnson. It seems clear that no one can be a great poet
Words: 12:without having been sometime during life a lover, and having lost the
Words: 12:object of his affection in some mysterious way. Burns had his Highland
Words: 12:Mary, Byron his Mary, and Dante was not without his Beatrice. Whether
Words: 14:there ever lived such a person as Beatrice seems to be a question upon
Words: 11:which neither of his biographers have thrown much light. However, a
Words: 13:Beatrice existed in the poet's mind, if not on earth. His attachment to
Words: 12:Beatrice Portinari, and the linking of her name with the immortality of
Words: 11:his great poem, left an indelible impression upon his future character.
Words: 12:The marriage of the object of his affections to another, and her
Words: 10:subsequent death, and the poet's exile from his beloved Florence,
Words: 11:together with his death amongst strangers--all give an interest to the
Words: 11:poet's writings, which could not be heightened by romance itself. When
Words: 13:exiled and in poverty, Dante found a friend in the father of Francesca.
Words: 14:And here, under the roof of his protector, he wrote his great poem. The
Words: 13:time the painter has chosen is evening. Day and night meet in mid-air:
Words: 13:one star is alone visible. Sailing in vacancy are the shadows of the
Words: 10:lovers. The countenance of Francesca is expressive of hopeless agony.
Words: 11:The delineations are sublime, the conception is of the highest order,
Words: 13:and the execution admirable. Dante is seated in a marble vestibule, in a
Words: 11:meditating attitude, the face partly concealed by the right hand upon
Words: 13:which it is resting. On the whole, it is an excellently painted piece,
Words: 13:and causes one to go back with a fresh relish to the Italian's
Words: 13:celebrated poem. In coming out, we stopped a short while in the upper
Words: 12:room of the Gallery, and spent a few minutes over a painting
Words: 11:representing Mrs. Siddons in one of Shakspere's characters. This is by
Words: 14:Sir Joshua Reynolds, and is only one of the many pieces that we have
Words: 13:seen of this great artist. His genius was vast, and powerful in its
Words: 11:grasp. His fancy fertile, and his inventive faculty inexhaustible in its
Words: 11:resources. He displayed the very highest powers of genius by the
Words: 11:thorough originality of his conceptions, and by the entirely new path
Words: 15:that he struck out in art. Well may Englishmen be proud of his name. And
Words: 14:as time shall step between his day and those that follow after him, the
Words: 12:more will his works be appreciated. We have since visited his grave,
Words: 8:and stood over his monument in St. Paul's.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XI.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:_York Minster--The Great Organ--Newcastle-on-Tyne--The Labouring
Words: 4:Classes--The American Slave--Sheffield--James Montgomery._
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:                    _January, 1850_.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:Some days since, I left the Metropolis to fulfil a few engagements to
Words: 13:visit provincial towns; and after a ride of nearly eight hours, we were
Words: 16:in sight of the ancient city of York. It was night, the moon was in her
Words: 11:zenith, and there seemed nothing between her and the earth but
Words: 10:glittering gold. The moon, the stars, and the innumerable gas-lights,
Words: 13:gave the city a panoramic appearance. Like a mountain starting out of a
Words: 13:plain, there stood the Cathedral in all its glory, looking down upon the
Words: 10:surrounding buildings, with all the appearance of a Gulliver standing
Words: 11:over the Lilliputians. Night gave us no opportunity to view the
Words: 12:Minster. However, we were up the next morning before the sun, and
Words: 11:walking round the Cathedral with a degree of curiosity seldom excited
Words: 13:within us. It is thought that a building of the same dimensions would
Words: 14:take fifty years to complete it at the present time, even with all the
Words: 12:improvements of the nineteenth century, and would cost no less than the
Words: 13:enormous sum of two millions of pounds sterling. From what I had heard
Words: 11:of this famous Cathedral, my expectations were raised to the highest
Words: 14:point; but it surpassed all the idea that I had formed of it. On
Words: 12:entering the building, we lost all thought of the external appearance by
Words: 13:the matchless beauty of the interior. The echo produced by the tread of
Words: 12:our feet upon the floor as we entered, resounding through the aisles,
Words: 14:seemed to say "Put off your shoes, for the place whereon you tread is
Words: 13:holy ground." We stood with hat in hand, and gazed with wonder and
Words: 11:astonishment down the incomparable vista of more than five hundred feet.
Words: 14:The organ, which stands near the centre of the building, is said to be
Words: 16:one of the finest in the world. A wall, in front of which is a screen
Words: 11:of the most gorgeous and florid architecture and executed in solid
Words: 10:stone, separates the nave from the service choir. The beautiful
Words: 13:workmanship of this makes it appear so perfect, as almost to produce the
Words: 13:belief that it is tracery work of wood. We ascended the rough stone
Words: 14:steps through a winding stair to the turrets, where we had such a view
Words: 13:of the surrounding country, as can be obtained from no other place. On
Words: 14:the top of the centre and highest turret, is a grotesque figure of a
Words: 12:fiddler; rather a strange looking object, we thought, to occupy the most
Words: 11:elevated pinnacle on the house of God. All dwellings in the
Words: 12:neighbourhood appear like so many dwarfs couching at the feet of the
Words: 11:Minster; while its own vastness and beauty impress the observer with
Words: 13:feelings of awe and sublimity. As we stood upon the top of this
Words: 8:stupendous mountain of ecclesiastical architecture, and surveyed the
Words: 10:picturesque hills and valleys around, imagination recalled the tumult of
Words: 12:the sanguinary battles fought in sight of the edifice. The rebellion of
Words: 12:Octavius near three thousand years ago, his defeat and flight to the
Words: 12:Scots, his return and triumph over the Romans, and being crowned king
Words: 11:of all Britain; the assassination of Oswald king of the Northumbrians;
Words: 13:the flaying alive of Osbert; the crowning of Richard III; the siege by
Words: 12:William the Conqueror; the siege by Cromwell, and the pomp and splendour
Words: 11:with which the different monarchs had been received in York, all
Words: 14:appeared to be vividly before me. While we were thus calling to our aid
Words: 13:our knowledge of history, a sweet peal from the lungs of the ponderous
Words: 13:organ below cut short our stay among the turrets, and we descended to
Words: 14:have our organ of tune gratified, as well as to finish the inspection of
Words: 2:the interior.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:I have heard the sublime melodies of Handel, Hayden, and Mozart,
Words: 11:performed by the most skilful musicians; I have listened with delight
Words: 12:and awe to the soul-moving compositions of those masters, as they have
Words: 12:been chaunted in the most magnificent churches; but never did I hear
Words: 13:such music, and played upon such an instrument, as that sent forth by
Words: 13:the great organ in the Cathedral of York. The verger took much delight
Words: 14:in showing us the Horn that was once mounted with gold, but is now
Words: 12:garnished with brass. We viewed the monuments and tombs of the departed,
Words: 14:and then spent an hour before the great north window. The designs on the
Words: 12:painted glass, which tradition states was given to the church by five
Words: 14:virgin sisters, is the finest thing of the kind in Great Britain. I felt
Words: 13:a relief on once more coming into the open air and again beholding
Words: 12:Nature's own sun-light. The splendid ruins of St. Mary's Abbey, with its
Words: 10:eight beautiful light gothic windows, next attracted our attention. A
Words: 14:visit to the Castle finished our stay in York; and as we were leaving
Words: 14:the old city we almost imagined that we heard the chiming of the bells
Words: 11:for the celebration of the first Christian Sabbath, with Prince Arthur
Words: 4:as the presiding genius.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:       *       *       *       *       *
Words: 0:
Words: 10:England stands pre-eminently the first government in the world for
Words: 14:freedom of speech and of the press. Not even in our own beloved America,
Words: 13:can the man who feels himself oppressed speak as he can in Great
Words: 12:Britain. In some parts of England, however, the freedom of thought is
Words: 12:tolerated to a greater extent than in others; and of the places
Words: 11:favourable to reforms of all kinds, calculated to elevate and benefit
Words: 8:mankind, Newcastle-on-Tyne doubtless takes the lead. Surrounded by
Words: 10:innumerable coal mines, it furnishes employment for a large labouring
Words: 13:population, many of whom take a deep interest in the passing events of
Words: 12:the day, and, consequently, are a reading class. The public debater or
Words: 14:speaker, no matter what may be his subject, who fails to get an audience
Words: 14:in other towns, is sure of a gathering in the Music Hall, or Lecture
Words: 13:Room in Newcastle. Here I first had an opportunity of coming in contact
Words: 12:with a portion of the labouring people of Britain. I have addressed
Words: 10:large and influential meetings in Newcastle and the neighbouring towns,
Words: 14:and the more I see and learn of the condition of the working-classes of
Words: 13:England the more I am satisfied of the utter fallacy of the statements
Words: 12:often made that their condition approximates to that of the slaves of
Words: 10:America. Whatever may be the disadvantages that the British peasant
Words: 14:labours under, he is free; and if he is not satisfied with his employer
Words: 14:he can make choice of another. He also has the right to educate his
Words: 13:children; and he is the equal of the most wealthy person before an
Words: 14:English Court of Justice. But how is it with the American Slave? He has
Words: 15:no right to himself, no right to protect his wife, his child, or his own
Words: 13:person. He is nothing more than a living tool. Beyond his field or
Words: 13:workshop he knows nothing. There is no amount of ignorance he is not
Words: 16:capable of. He has not the least idea of the face of this earth, nor of
Words: 13:the history or constitution of the country in which he dwells. To him
Words: 9:the literature, science, and art--the progressive history, and the
Words: 12:accumulated discoveries of bygone ages, are as if they had never been.
Words: 13:The past is to him as yesterday, and the future scarcely more than
Words: 9:to-morrow. Ancestral monuments, he has none; written documents fraught
Words: 11:with cogitations of other times, he has none; and any instrumentality
Words: 9:calculated to awaken and expound the intellectual activity and
Words: 11:comprehension of a present or approaching generation, he has none. His
Words: 14:condition is that of the leopard of his own native Africa. It lives, it
Words: 12:propagates its kind; but never does it indicate a movement towards that
Words: 11:all but angelic intelligence of man. The slave eats, drinks, and
Words: 13:sleeps--all for the benefit of the man who claims his body as his
Words: 14:property. Before the tribunals of his country he has no voice. He has no
Words: 14:higher appeal than the mere will of his owner. He knows nothing of the
Words: 11:inspired Apostles through their writings. He has no Sabbath, no Church,
Words: 16:no Bible, no means of grace,--and yet we are told that he is as well off
Words: 14:as the labouring classes of England. It is not enough that the people of
Words: 10:my country should point to their Declaration of Independence which
Words: 13:declares that "all men are created equal." It is not enough that they
Words: 10:should laud to the skies a constitution containing boasting declarations
Words: 14:in favour of freedom. It is not enough that they should extol the genius
Words: 12:of Washington, the patriotism of Henry, or the enthusiasm of Otis. The
Words: 14:time has come when nations are judged by the acts of the present instead
Words: 16:of the past. And so it must be with America. In no place in the United
Words: 10:Kingdom has the American Slave warmer friends than in Newcastle.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:       *       *       *       *       *
Words: 0:
Words: 14:I am now in Sheffield, and have just returned from a visit to James
Words: 12:Montgomery, the poet. In company with James Wall, Esq., I proceeded to
Words: 13:The Mount, the residence of Mr. Montgomery; and our names being sent in,
Words: 14:we were soon in the presence of the "Christian Poet." He held in his
Words: 13:left hand the _Eclectic Review_ for the month, and with the right gave
Words: 14:me a hearty shake, and bade me "Welcome to old England." He was anything
Words: 17:but like the portraits I had seen of him, and the man I had in my mind's
Words: 14:eye. I had just been reading his "Pelican Island," and I eyed the poet
Words: 13:with no little interest. He is under the middle size, his forehead high
Words: 15:and well formed, the top of which was a little bald; his hair of a
Words: 13:yellowish colour, his eyes rather small and deep set, the nose long and
Words: 13:slightly aquiline, his mouth rather small, and not at all pretty. He was
Words: 13:dressed in black, and a large white cravat entirely hid his neck and
Words: 10:chin: his having been afflicted from childhood with salt-rhum, was
Words: 12:doubtless the cause of his chin being so completely buried in the
Words: 12:neckcloth. Upon the whole, he looked more like one of our American
Words: 13:Methodist parsons, than any one I have seen in this country. He entered
Words: 14:freely into conversation with us. He said he should be glad to attend my
Words: 13:lecture that evening, but that he had long since quit going out at
Words: 10:night. He mentioned having heard William Lloyd Garrison some years
Words: 15:before, and with whom he was well pleased. He said it had long been a
Words: 12:puzzle to him, how Americans could hold slaves and still retain their
Words: 14:membership in the churches. When we rose to leave, the old man took my
Words: 14:hand between his two, and with tears in his eyes said, "Go on your
Words: 11:Christian mission, and may the Lord protect and prosper you. Your
Words: 11:enslaved countrymen have my sympathy, and shall have my prayers." Thus
Words: 14:ended our visit to the Bard of Sheffield. Long after I had quitted the
Words: 13:presence of the poet, the following lines of his were ringing in my
Words: 1:ears:--
Words: 0:
Words: 5:   "Wanderer, whither dost thou roam?
Words: 5:    Weary wanderer, old and grey,
Words: 6:    Wherefore has thou left thine home,
Words: 6:    In the sunset of thy day.
Words: 5:    Welcome wanderer as thou art,
Words: 5:    All my blessings to partake;
Words: 6:    Yet thrice welcome to my heart,
Words: 5:    For thine injured people's sake.
Words: 5:    Wanderer, whither would'st thou roam?
Words: 5:    To what region far away?
Words: 7:    Bend thy steps to find a home,
Words: 6:    In the twilight of thy day.
Words: 5:    Where a tyrant never trod,
Words: 6:    Where a slave was never known--
Words: 5:    But where Nature worships God
Words: 4:    In the wilderness alone."
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Mr. Montgomery seems to have thrown his entire soul into his meditations
Words: 13:on the wrongs of Switzerland. The poem from which we have just quoted,
Words: 12:is unquestionably one of his best productions, and contains more of the
Words: 13:fire of enthusiasm than all his other works. We feel a reverence almost
Words: 12:amounting to superstition, for the poet who deals with nature. And who
Words: 13:is more capable of understanding the human heart than the poet? Who has
Words: 10:better known the human feelings than Shakspere; better painted than
Words: 12:Milton, the grandeur of Virtue; better sighed than Byron over the subtle
Words: 12:weaknesses of Hope? Who ever had a sounder taste, a more exact
Words: 14:intellect than Dante? or who has ever tuned his harp more in favour of
Words: 5:Freedom, than our own Whittier?
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XII.
Words: 0:
Words: 10:_Kirkstall Abbey--Mary the Maid of the Inn--Newstead Abbey: Residence of
Words: 8:Lord Byron--Parish Church of Hucknall--Burial Place of Lord
Words: 6:Byron--Bristol: "Cook's Folly"--Chepstow Castle and Abbey--Tintern
Words: 2:Abbey--Redcliffe Church._
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:                    _January 29_.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:In passing through Yorkshire, we could not resist the temptation it
Words: 12:offered, to pay a visit to the extensive and interesting ruin of
Words: 11:Kirkstall Abbey, which lies embosomed in a beautiful recess of Airedale,
Words: 12:about three miles from Leeds. A pleasant drive over a smooth road,
Words: 12:brought us abruptly in sight of the Abbey. The tranquil and pensive
Words: 13:beauty of the desolate Monastery, as it reposes in the lap of pastoral
Words: 10:luxuriance, and amidst the touching associations of seven centuries, is
Words: 11:almost beyond description when viewed from where we first beheld it.
Words: 13:After arriving at its base, we stood for some moments under the mighty
Words: 13:arches that lead into the great hall, gazing at its old grey walls
Words: 14:frowning with age. At the distance of a small field, the Aire is seen
Words: 15:gliding past the foot of the lawn on which the ruin stands, after it has
Words: 12:left those precincts, sparkling over a weir with a pleasing murmur. We
Words: 12:could fully enter into the feelings of the Poet when he says:--
Words: 0:
Words: 5:   "Beautiful fabric! even in decay
Words: 6:      And desolation, beauty still is thine;
Words: 8:    As the rich sunset of an autumn day,
Words: 7:      When gorgeous clouds in glorious hues combine
Words: 7:    To render homage to its slow decline,
Words: 7:      Is more majestic in its parting hour:
Words: 6:    Even so thy mouldering, venerable shrine
Words: 6:      Possesses now a more subduing power,
Words: 11:    Than in thine earlier sway, with pomp and pride thy dower."
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 14:The tale of "Mary, the Maid of the Inn," is supposed, and not without
Words: 12:foundation, to be connected with this Abbey. "Hark to Rover," the name
Words: 16:of the house where the key is kept, was, a century ago, a retired inn or
Words: 12:pot-house, and the haunt of many a desperate highwayman and poacher. The
Words: 13:anecdote is so well known, that it is scarcely necessary to relate it.
Words: 5:It, however, is briefly this:--
Words: 0:
Words: 12:"One stormy night, as two travellers sat at the inn, each having
Words: 11:exhausted his news, the conversation was directed to the Abbey, the
Words: 14:boisterous night, and Mary's heroism; when a bet was at last made by one
Words: 16:of them, that she would not go and bring back from the nave a slip of
Words: 11:the alder-tree growing there. Mary, however, did go; but having nearly
Words: 12:reached the tree, she heard a low, indistinct dialogue; at the same
Words: 10:time, something black fell and rolled towards her, which afterwards
Words: 13:proved to be a hat. Directing her attention to the place whence the
Words: 11:conversation proceeded, she saw, from behind a pillar, two men carrying
Words: 13:a murdered body: they passed near the place where she stood, a heavy
Words: 13:cloud was swept from off the face of the moon, and Mary fell
Words: 10:senseless--one of the murderers was her intended husband! She was
Words: 12:awakened from her swoon, but--her reason had fled for ever." Mr. Southey
Words: 14:wrote a beautiful poem founded on this story, which will be found in his
Words: 11:published works. We spent nearly three hours in wandering through these
Words: 12:splendid ruins. It is both curious and interesting to trace the early
Words: 11:history of these old piles, which become the resort of thousands,
Words: 12:nine-tenths of whom are unaware either of the classic ground on which
Words: 13:they tread, or of the peculiar interest thrown around the spot by the
Words: 4:deeds of remote ages.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:During our stay in Leeds, we had the good fortune to become acquainted
Words: 12:with Wilson Armistead, Esq. This gentleman is well known as an able
Words: 12:writer against Slavery. His most elaborate work is "A Tribute for the
Words: 13:Negro." This is a volume of 560 pages, and is replete with facts
Words: 11:refuting the charges of inferiority brought against the Negro race. Few
Words: 12:English gentlemen have done more to hasten the day of the American
Words: 5:slave's liberation, than Wilson Armistead.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:       *       *       *       *       *
Words: 0:
Words: 13:We have just paid a visit to Newstead Abbey, the far-famed residence of
Words: 11:Lord Byron. I posted from Hucknall over to Newstead one pleasant
Words: 11:morning, and, being provided with a letter of introduction to Colonel
Words: 14:Wildman, I lost no time in presenting myself at the door of the Abbey.
Words: 11:But, unfortunately for me, the Colonel was at Mansfield, in attendance
Words: 12:at the Assizes--he being one of the County Magistrates. I did not
Words: 13:however lose the object of my visit, as every attention was paid in
Words: 14:showing me about the premises. I felt as every one must, who gazes for
Words: 13:the first time upon these walls, and remembers that it was here, even
Words: 12:amid the comparative ruins of a building once dedicated to the sacred
Words: 13:cause of Religion and her twin sister, Charity, that the genius of Byron
Words: 11:was first developed. Here that he paced with youthful melancholy the
Words: 11:halls of his illustrious ancestors, and trode the walks of the
Words: 8:long-banished monks. The housekeeper--a remarkably good looking and
Words: 9:polite woman--showed us through the different apartments, and explained
Words: 12:in the most minute manner every object of interest connected with the
Words: 11:interior of the building. We first visited the Monks' Parlour, which
Words: 11:seemed to contain nothing of note, except a very fine stained
Words: 11:window--one of the figures representing St. Paul, surmounted by a cross.
Words: 10:We passed through Lord Byron's Bedroom, the Haunted Chamber, the
Words: 11:Library, and the Eastern Corridor, and halted in the Tapestry Bedroom,
Words: 13:which is truly a magnificent apartment, formed by the Byrons for the use
Words: 13:of King Charles II. The ceiling is richly decorated with the Byron arms.
Words: 11:We next visited the grand Drawing-room, probably the finest in the
Words: 10:building. This saloon contains a large number of splendid portraits,
Words: 12:among which is the celebrated portrait of Lord Byron, by Phillips. In
Words: 15:this room we took into our hand the Skull-cup, of which so much has been
Words: 11:written, and that has on it a short inscription, commencing with--"Start
Words: 12:not--nor deem my spirit fled." Leaving this noble room, we descended by
Words: 13:a few polished oak steps into the West Corridor, from which we entered
Words: 12:the grand Dining Hall, and through several other rooms, until we reached
Words: 14:the Chapel. Here we were shown a stone coffin which had been found near
Words: 12:the high altar, when the workmen were excavating the vault, intended by
Words: 13:Lord Byron for himself and his dog. The coffin contained the skeleton of
Words: 14:an Abbot, and also the identical skull from which the cup, of which I
Words: 13:have made mention, was made. We then left the building, and took a
Words: 12:stroll through the grounds. After passing a pond of cold crystal water,
Words: 16:we came to a dark wood in which are two leaden statues of Pan, and a
Words: 12:female satyr--very fine specimens as works of art. We here inspected the
Words: 14:tree whereon Byron carved his own name and that of his sister, with the
Words: 14:date, all of which are still legible. However, the tree is now dead, and
Words: 14:we were informed that Colonel Wildman intended to have it cut down so as
Words: 10:to preserve the part containing the inscription. After crossing an
Words: 11:interesting and picturesque part of the gardens, we arrived within the
Words: 12:precincts of the ancient Chapel, near which we observed a neat marble
Words: 13:monument, and which we supposed to have been erected to the memory of
Words: 14:some of the Byrons; but, on drawing near to it, we read the following
Words: 1:inscription:--
Words: 0:
Words: 3:                "Near this spot
Words: 6:        are deposited the remains of one
Words: 5:      who possessed beauty without vanity,
Words: 3:          strength without insolence,
Words: 3:            courage without ferocity,
Words: 9:    and all the virtues of man without his vices.
Words: 7:  This praise, which would be unmeaning flattery,
Words: 5:        if inscribed over human ashes,
Words: 9:      is but a just tribute to the memory of
Words: 3:              BOATSWAIN, a dog,
Words: 7:    Who was born at Newfoundland, May, 1803,
Words: 8:  and died at Newstead Abbey, November 18, 1808."
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 14:By a will which his Lordship executed in 1811, he directed that his own
Words: 14:body should be buried in a vault in the garden, near his faithful dog.
Words: 11:This feeling of affection to his dumb and faithful follower, commendable
Words: 13:in itself, seems here to have been carried beyond the bounds of reason
Words: 2:and propriety.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:In another part of the grounds we saw the oak tree planted by the poet
Words: 12:himself. It has now attained a goodly size, considering the growth of
Words: 14:the oak, and bids fair to become a lasting memento to the Noble Bard,
Words: 14:and to be a shrine to which thousands of pilgrims will resort in future
Words: 14:ages, to do homage to his mighty genius. This tree promises to share in
Words: 10:after times the celebrity of Shakspere's mulberry, and Pope's willow.
Words: 14:Near by, and in the tall trees, the rooks were keeping up a tremendous
Words: 10:noise. After seeing everything of interest connected with the great
Words: 13:poet, we entered our chaise, and left the premises. As we were leaving,
Words: 13:I turned to take a farewell look at the Abbey, standing in solemn
Words: 13:grandeur, the long ivy clinging fondly to the rich tracery of a former
Words: 13:age. Proceeding to the little town of Hucknall, we entered the old grey
Words: 12:Parish Church, which has for ages been the last resting-place of the
Words: 14:Byrons, and where repose the ashes of the Poet, marked only by a neat
Words: 13:marble slab, bearing the date of the poet's birth, death, and the fact
Words: 14:that the tablet was placed there by his sister. This closed my visit to
Words: 8:the interesting scenes associated with Byron's strange eventful
Words: 12:history--scenes that ever acquire a growing charm as the lapse of years
Words: 13:softens the errors of the man, and confirms the genius of the poet.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:       *       *       *       *       *
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:                    _May 10_.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:It was on a lovely morning that I found myself on board the little
Words: 12:steamer _Wye_, passing out of Bristol harbour. In going down the river,
Words: 13:we saw on our right, the stupendous rocks of St. Vincent towering some
Words: 14:four or five hundred feet above our heads. By the swiftness of our fairy
Words: 12:steamer, we were soon abreast of Cook's Folly, a singular tower, built
Words: 14:by a man from whom it takes its name, and of which the following
Words: 12:romantic story is told:--"Some years since a gentleman, of the name of
Words: 13:Cook, erected this tower, which has since gone by the name of 'Cook's
Words: 12:Folly.' A son having been born, he was desirous of ascertaining, by
Words: 12:means of astrology, if he would live to enjoy his property. Being
Words: 11:himself a firm believer, like the poet Dryden, that certain information
Words: 11:might be obtained from the above science, he caused the child's
Words: 13:horoscope to be drawn, and found, to his dismay, that in his third,
Words: 12:sixteenth, or twenty-first year, he would be in danger of meeting with
Words: 12:some fearful calamity or sudden death, to avert which he caused the
Words: 12:turret to be constructed, and the child placed therein. Secure, as he
Words: 11:vainly thought, there he lived, attended by a faithful servant, their
Words: 13:food and fuel being conveyed to them by means of a pully-basket, until
Words: 14:he was old enough to wait upon himself. On the eve of his twenty-first
Words: 11:year, his parent's hopes rose high, and great were the rejoicings
Words: 13:prepared to welcome the young heir to his home. But, alas! no human
Words: 14:skill could avert the dark fate which clung to him. The last night he
Words: 15:had to pass alone in the turret, a bundle of faggots was conveyed to him
Words: 14:as usual, in which lay concealed a viper, which clung to his hand. The
Words: 14:bite was fatal; and, instead of being borne in triumph, the dead body of
Words: 14:his only son was the sad spectacle which met the sight of his father."
Words: 0:
Words: 12:We crossed the channel and soon entered the mouth of that most
Words: 13:picturesque of rivers, the Wye. As we neared the town of Chepstow the
Words: 13:old Castle made its appearance, and a fine old ruin it is. Being
Words: 11:previously provided with a letter of introduction to a gentleman in
Words: 14:Chepstow, I lost no time in finding him out. This gentleman gave me a
Words: 12:cordial reception, and did what Englishmen seldom ever do, lent me his
Words: 14:saddle horse to ride to the Abbey. While lunch was in preparation I took
Words: 13:a stroll through the Castle which stood near by. We entered the Castle
Words: 12:through the great door-way and were soon treading the walls that had
Words: 12:once sustained the cannon and the sentinel, but were now covered with
Words: 13:weeds and wild flowers. The drum and fife had once been heard within
Words: 14:these walls--the only music now is the cawing of the rook and daw. We
Words: 12:paid a hasty visit to the various apartments, remaining longest in those
Words: 12:of most interest. The room in which Martin the Regicide was imprisoned
Words: 13:nearly twenty years, was pointed out to us. The Castle of Chepstow is
Words: 12:still a magnificent pile, towering upon the brink of a stupendous cliff,
Words: 14:on reaching the top of which, we had a splendid view of the surrounding
Words: 11:country. Time, however, compelled us to retrace our steps, and after
Words: 14:partaking of a lunch, we mounted a horse for the first time in ten
Words: 12:years, and started for Tintern Abbey. The distance from Chepstow to the
Words: 14:Abbey is about five miles, and the road lies along the banks of the
Words: 14:river. The river is walled in on either side by hills of much beauty,
Words: 13:clothed from base to summit with the richest verdure. I can conceive of
Words: 12:nothing more striking than the first appearance of the Abbey. As we
Words: 15:rounded a hill, all at once we saw the old ruin standing before us in
Words: 10:all its splendour. This celebrated ecclesiastical relic of the olden
Words: 12:time is doubtless the finest ruin of its kind in Europe. Embosomed
Words: 13:amongst hills, and situated on the banks of the most fairy-like river in
Words: 12:the world, its beauty can scarcely be surpassed. We halted at the
Words: 12:"Beaufort Arms," left our horse, and sallied forth to view the Abbey.
Words: 14:The sun was pouring a flood of light upon the old grey walls, lighting
Words: 14:up its dark recesses, as if to give us a better opportunity of viewing
Words: 12:it. I gazed with astonishment and admiration at its many beauties, and
Words: 11:especially at the superb gothic windows over the entrance door. The
Words: 11:beautiful gothic pillars, with here and there a representation of a
Words: 10:praying priest, and mailed knights, with saints and Christian martyrs,
Words: 10:and the hundreds of Scriptural representations, all indicate that this
Words: 12:was a place of considerable importance in its palmy days. The once
Words: 12:stone floor had disappeared, and we found ourselves standing on a floor
Words: 13:of unbroken green grass, swelling back to the old walls, and looking so
Words: 13:verdant and silken that it seemed the very floor of fancy. There are
Words: 13:more romantic and wilder places than this in the world, but none more
Words: 10:beautiful. The preservation of these old abbeys should claim the
Words: 13:attention of those under whose charge they are, and we felt like joining
Words: 5:with the poet and saying:--
Words: 0:
Words: 4:                           "O ye who dwell
Words: 7:    Around yon ruins, guard the precious charge
Words: 8:    From hands profane! O save the sacred pile--
Words: 8:    O'er which the wing of centuries has flown
Words: 5:    Darkly and silently, deep-shadowing all
Words: 6:    Its pristine honours--from the ruthless grasp
Words: 3:    Of future violation."
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 10:In contemplating these ruins more closely, the mind insensibly reverts
Words: 12:to the period of feudal and regal oppression, when structures like that
Words: 10:of Tintern Abbey necessarily became the scenes of stirring and
Words: 10:highly-important events. How altered is the scene! Where were formerly
Words: 9:magnificence and splendour; the glittering array of priestly prowess;
Words: 11:the crowded halls of haughty bigots, and the prison of religious
Words: 12:offenders; there is now but a heap of mouldering ruins. The oppressed
Words: 12:and the oppressor have long since lain down together in the peaceful
Words: 10:grave. The ruin, generally speaking, is unusually perfect, and the
Words: 10:sculpture still beautifully sharp. The outward walls are nearly entire,
Words: 15:and are thickly clad with ivy. Many of the windows are also in a good
Words: 12:state of preservation; but the roof has long since fallen in. The
Words: 9:feathered songsters were fluttering about, and pouring forth their
Words: 14:artless lays as a tribute of joy; while the lowing of the herds, the
Words: 15:bleating of flocks, and the hum of bees upon the farm near by, all burst
Words: 13:upon the ear, and gave the scene a picturesque sublimity that can be
Words: 10:easier imagined than described. Most assuredly Shakspere had such ruins
Words: 5:in view when he exclaimed--
Words: 0:
Words: 6:   "The cloud-capp'd towers, the gorgeous palaces,
Words: 7:    The solemn temples, the great globe itself,
Words: 7:    Yea, all which it inherit, shall dissolve--
Words: 8:    And, like the baseless fabric of a vision,
Words: 5:    Leave not a wreck behind."
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 13:In the afternoon we returned to Bristol, and I spent the greater part
Words: 12:of the next day in examining the interior of Redcliffe Church. Few
Words: 12:places in the West of England have greater claims upon the topographer
Words: 11:and historian than the church of St. Mary's, Redcliffe. Its antiquity,
Words: 10:the beauty of its architecture, and above all the interesting
Words: 10:circumstances connected with its history, entitle it to peculiar notice.
Words: 13:It is also associated with the enterprise of genius; for its name has
Words: 11:been blended with the reputation of Rowley, of Canynge, and of
Words: 13:Chatterton; and no lover of poetry and admirer of art can visit it
Words: 12:without a degree of enthusiasm. And when the old building shall have
Words: 11:mouldered into ruins, even these will be trodden with veneration as
Words: 12:sacred to the recollection of genius of the highest order. Ascending a
Words: 13:winding stair, we were shown into the Treasury Room. The room forms an
Words: 8:irregular octagon, admitting light through narrow unglazed apertures
Words: 11:upon the broken and scattered fragments of the famous Rowleian chests,
Words: 14:that with the rubble and dust of centuries cover the floor. It is here
Words: 12:creative fancy pictures forth the sad image of the spirit of the
Words: 12:spot--the ardent boy, flushed and fed by hope, musing on the brilliant
Words: 11:deception he had conceived--whose daring attempt has left his name unto
Words: 9:the intellectual world as a marvel and a mystery.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:That a boy under twelve years of age should write a series of poems,
Words: 12:imitating the style of the fifteenth century, and palm these poems off
Words: 15:upon the world as the work of a monk, is indeed strange; and that these
Words: 10:should become the object of interesting contemplation to the literary
Words: 11:world, and should awaken inquiries, and exercise the talents of a
Words: 12:Southey, a Bryant, a Miller, a Mathias, and others, savours more of
Words: 13:romance than reality. I had visited the room in a garret in High
Words: 14:Holborn, where this poor boy died. I had stood over a grave in the
Words: 13:burial-ground of the Lane Workhouse, which was pointed out to me as the
Words: 14:last resting-place of Chatterton; and now I was in the room where it was
Words: 11:alleged he obtained the manuscripts that gave him such notoriety. We
Words: 12:descended and viewed other portions of the church. The effect of the
Words: 11:chancel, as seen behind the pictures, is very singular, and suggestive
Words: 13:of many swelling thoughts. We look at the great east window, it is
Words: 11:unadorned with its wonted painted glass; we look at the altar-screen
Words: 13:beneath, on which the light of day again falls, and behold the injuries
Words: 14:it has received at the hands of time. There is a dreary mournfulness in
Words: 14:the scene which fastens on the mind, and is in unison with the time-worn
Words: 12:mouldering fragments that are seen all around us. And this dreariness is
Words: 13:not removed by our tracing the destiny of man on the storied pavements
Words: 14:or on the graven brass, that still bears upon its surface the names of
Words: 13:those who obtained the world's regard years back. This old pile is not
Words: 14:only an ornament to the city, but it stands a living monument to the
Words: 13:genius of its founder. Bristol has long sustained a high position as a
Words: 9:place from which the American Abolitionists have received substantial
Words: 10:encouragement in their arduous labours for the emancipation of the
Words: 13:slaves of that land; and the writer of this received the best evidence
Words: 12:that in this respect the character of the people had not been
Words: 8:exaggerated, especially as regards the "Clifton Ladies' Anti-Slavery
Words: 1:Society."
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XXIII.[A]
Words: 0:
Words: 14:[A] This letter is rather out of its proper place here. I had mislaid
Words: 12:the MS., and my distance from the printer prevented the matter being
Words: 9:rectified. In another edition, the transposition can be effected.
Words: 0:
Words: 6:_Aberdeen--Passage by Steamer--Edinburgh--Visit to the College--William
Words: 3:and Ellen Craft._
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 13:I have visited few places where I found more warm friends than in
Words: 8:Aberdeen. This is the Granite City of Scotland.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Aberdeen reminds one of Boston, especially in a walk down Union Street,
Words: 12:which is said to be one of the finest promenades in Europe.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:The town is situated on a neck of land between the rivers Dee and Don,
Words: 13:and is the most important place in the north of Scotland. During our
Words: 14:third day in the city, we visited among other places the Old Bridge of
Words: 13:Don, which is not only resorted to on account of its antique celebrity
Words: 12:and peculiar appearance, but also because of the notoriety that it has
Words: 10:gained by Lord Byron's poem of the "Bridge of Don."
Words: 0:
Words: 14:An engagement to be in Edinburgh and vicinity, cut short our stay in the
Words: 14:north. The very mild state of the weather, and a wish to see something
Words: 12:of the coast between Aberdeen and Edinburgh, induced us to make the
Words: 3:journey by water.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:On Friday evening, the 14th, after delivering a lecture before the Total
Words: 12:Abstinence Society, in company with William and Ellen Craft, I went on
Words: 12:board the steamer bound for Edinburgh. On reaching the vessel, we found
Words: 10:the drawing-room almost entirely at our service, and prejudice against
Words: 11:colour being unknown, we had no difficulty in getting the best
Words: 11:accommodation which the steamer could furnish. This is so unlike the
Words: 9:pro-slavery, negro-hating spirit of America, that the Crafts seemed
Words: 13:almost bewildered by the transition. I had been in the saloon but a
Words: 12:short time, when, looking at the newspapers on the table, I discovered
Words: 15:the _North Star_. It was like meeting with a friend in a strange land. I
Words: 17:looked in vain on the margin for the name of its owner, but as I did not
Words: 16:feel at liberty to take it, and as it appeared to be alone, I laid the
Words: 8:_Liberator_ by its side to keep it company.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:The night was a glorious one. The sky was without a speck; and the
Words: 14:clear, piercing air had a brilliancy I have seldom seen. The moon was in
Words: 10:its zenith--the steamer and surrounding objects were beautiful in the
Words: 14:extreme. The boat got under weigh at a little past twelve, and we were
Words: 15:soon out at sea. The "Queen" is a splendid craft, and without the aid of
Words: 15:sails, was able to make fifteen miles within the hour. I was up the next
Words: 13:morning before the sun, and found the sea as on the previous night--as
Words: 13:calm and smooth as a mirror. It was a delightful morning, more like
Words: 14:April than February; and the sun, as it rose, seemed to fire every peak
Words: 14:of the surrounding hills. On our left, lay the Island of May, while to
Words: 13:the right was to be seen the small fishing town of Anstruther, twenty
Words: 12:miles distant from Edinburgh. Beyond these, on either side, was a range
Words: 11:of undulating blue mountains, swelling as they retired, into a bolder
Words: 10:outline and a loftier altitude, until they terminated some twenty-five
Words: 15:or thirty miles in the dim distance. A friend at my side pointed out a
Words: 13:place on the right, where the remains of an old castle or look-out
Words: 13:house, used in the time of the border wars, once stood, and which
Words: 8:reminded us of the barbarism of the past.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:But these signs are fast disappearing. The plough and roller have passed
Words: 13:over many of these foundations, and the time will soon come, when the
Words: 12:antiquarian will look in vain for those places that history has pointed
Words: 12:out to him, as connected with the political and religious struggles of
Words: 14:the past. The steward of the vessel came round to see who of the
Words: 13:passengers wished for breakfast, and as the keen air of the morning had
Words: 13:given me an appetite, and there being no prejudice on the score of
Words: 15:colour, I took my seat at the table and gave ample evidence that I was
Words: 14:not an invalid. On returning to the deck again, I found we had entered
Words: 13:the Forth, and that "Modern Athens" was in sight; and, far above every
Words: 13:other object, with its turrets almost lost in the clouds, could be seen
Words: 12:Edinburgh Castle. After landing, a pleasant ride over one of the finest
Words: 12:roads in Scotland, with a sprinkling of beautiful villas on either side,
Words: 7:brought us once more to Cannon's Hotel.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:In a city like Edinburgh, there is always something to keep the public
Words: 13:alive, but during our three days' stay in the town, on this occasion,
Words: 11:there were topics under discussion which seemed to excite the people,
Words: 13:although I had been told that the Scotch were not excitable. Indeed all
Words: 13:Edinburgh seemed to have gone mad about the Pope. If his Holiness should
Words: 15:think fit to pay a visit to his new dominions, I would advise him to
Words: 7:keep out of reach of the Scotch.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:In company with the Crafts, I visited the Calton Hill, from which we had
Words: 12:a delightful view of the city and surrounding country. I had an
Words: 12:opportunity during my stay in the city, of visiting the Infirmary, and
Words: 12:was pleased to see among the two or three hundred students, three
Words: 13:coloured young men, seated upon the same benches with those of a fairer
Words: 13:complexion, and yet there appeared no feeling on the part of the whites
Words: 9:towards their coloured associates, except of companionship and respect.
Words: 12:One of the cardinal truths, both of religion and freedom, is the
Words: 13:equality and brotherhood of man. In the sight of God and all just
Words: 10:institutions, the whites can claim no precedence or privilege, on
Words: 13:account of their being white; and if coloured men are not treated as
Words: 12:they should be in the educational institutions in America, it is a
Words: 11:pleasure to know that all distinction ceases by crossing the broad
Words: 12:Atlantic. I had scarcely left the lecture room of the Institute and
Words: 14:reached the street, when I met a large number of the students on their
Words: 14:way to the college, and here again were seen coloured men arm in arm
Words: 11:with whites. The proud American who finds himself in the splendid
Words: 12:streets of Edinburgh, and witnesses such scenes as these, can but behold
Words: 13:in them the degradation of his own country, whose laws would make slaves
Words: 12:of these same young men, should they appear in the streets of
Words: 4:Charleston or New Orleans.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:After all, our country is the most despotic in the wide world, and to
Words: 15:expose and hold it up to the scorn and contempt of other nations, is the
Words: 14:duty of every coloured man who would be true to himself and his race.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 12:During my stay in Edinburgh, I accepted an invitation to breakfast with
Words: 10:the great champion of Philosophical Phrenology. Few foreigners are more
Words: 11:admired in America, than the author of "The Constitution of Man."[B]
Words: 14:Although not far from 70 years of age, I found him apparently as active
Words: 15:and as energetic as many men of half that age. He was much pleased with
Words: 15:Mr. and Mrs. Craft, who formed a part of the breakfast party. It may be
Words: 13:a pleasure to the friends of these two fugitive slaves, to know that
Words: 14:they are now the inmates of a good school where they are now being
Words: 12:educated. For this, they are mainly indebted to that untiring friend of
Words: 12:the Slave, John B. Estlin, Esq., of Bristol, whose zeal and co-operation
Words: 11:with the American Abolitionists, have gained for him an undying name
Words: 9:with the friends of freedom in the New World.
Words: 0:
Words: 4:[B] George Combe, Esq.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XIII.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:_Edinburgh--The Royal Institute--Scott's Monument--John Knox's
Words: 7:Pulpit--Temperance Meeting--Glasgow--Great Meeting in the City Hall._
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 4:                    EDINBURGH, _January 1, 1851_.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:You will see by the date of this that I am spending my
Words: 10:New-Year's-Day in the Scottish Capital, in company with our friend,
Words: 13:William Craft. I came by invitation to attend a meeting of the Edinburgh
Words: 3:Ladies' Emancipation Society.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:The meeting was held on Monday evening last, at which William Craft
Words: 13:gave, for the first time, since his arrival in this country, a history
Words: 12:of his escape from Georgia, two years ago, together with his recent
Words: 3:flight from Boston.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Craft's reception was one of deep enthusiasm, and his story was well
Words: 13:told, and made a powerful impression on the audience. I would that the
Words: 11:slaveholders, Hughes and Knight, could have been present and heard the
Words: 11:thundering applause with which our friend was received on the following
Words: 10:evening. Craft attended a meeting of the Edinburgh Total Abstinence
Words: 11:Society, before which I lectured, and his appearance here was also
Words: 12:hailed with much enthusiasm. Our friend bids fair to become a favourite
Words: 3:with the Scotch.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Much regret was expressed that Ellen was not present. She was detained
Words: 12:in Liverpool by indisposition. But Mrs. Craft has so far recovered, that
Words: 5:we expect her here to-morrow.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:The appearance of these two fugitives in Great Britain, at this time,
Words: 12:and under the circumstances, will aid our cause, and create a renewed
Words: 10:hatred to the abominable institution of American slavery. I have
Words: 13:received letters from a number of the friends of the slave, in which
Words: 14:they express a wish to aid the Crafts; and among the first of these,
Words: 12:were our good friends, John B. Estlin, Esq., of Bristol, and Harriet
Words: 1:Martineau.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:But I must give you my impression of this fine city. Edinburgh is the
Words: 13:most picturesque of all the towns which I have visited since my arrival
Words: 12:in the father-land. Its situation has been compared to that of Athens,
Words: 15:but it is said that the modern Athens is superior to the ancient. I was
Words: 13:deeply impressed with the idea that I had seen the most beautiful of
Words: 9:cities, after beholding those fashionable resorts, Paris and Versailles.
Words: 14:I have seen nothing in the way of public grounds to compare with the
Words: 12:gardens of Versailles, or the _Champs Elysees_ at Paris; and as for
Words: 15:statuary, the latter place is said to take the lead of the rest of the
Words: 1:world.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:The general appearance of Edinburgh prepossesses one in its favour. The
Words: 13:town being built upon the brows of a large terrace, presents the most
Words: 11:wonderful perspective. Its first appearance to a stranger, and the first
Words: 12:impression, can scarcely be but favourable. In my first walk through the
Words: 13:town, I was struck with the difference in the appearance of the people
Words: 11:from the English. But the difference between the Scotch and the
Words: 10:Americans, is very great. The cheerfulness depicted in the countenances
Words: 13:of the people here, and their free and easy appearance, is very striking
Words: 15:to a stranger. He who taught the sun to shine, the flowers to bloom, the
Words: 12:birds to sing, and blesses us with rain, never intended that his
Words: 11:creatures should look sad. There is a wide difference between the
Words: 13:Americans and any other people which I have seen. The Scotch are healthy
Words: 7:and robust, unlike the long-faced, sickly-looking Americans.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:While on our journey from London to Paris, to attend the Peace Congress,
Words: 12:I could not but observe the marked difference between the English and
Words: 11:American delegates. The former looked as if their pockets had been
Words: 12:filled with sandwiches, made of good bread and roast beef, while the
Words: 11:latter appeared as if their pockets had been filled with Holloway's
Words: 5:Pills, and Mrs. Kidder's Cordial.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:I breakfasted this morning in a room in which the Poet Burns, as I was
Words: 11:informed, had often sat. The conversation here turned upon Burns. The
Words: 15:lady of the house pointed to a scrap of poetry which was in a frame
Words: 14:hanging on the wall, written, as she said, by the Poet, on hearing the
Words: 12:people rejoicing in a church over the intelligence of a victory. I
Words: 8:copied it and will give it to you:--
Words: 0:
Words: 6:   "Ye hypocrites! are these your pranks,
Words: 7:    To murder men and give God thanks?
Words: 7:    For shame! give o'er, proceed no further,
Words: 7:    God won't accept your thanks for murder."
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 14:The fact that I was in the room where Scotland's great national poet had
Words: 15:been a visitor, caused me to feel that I was on classic, if not hallowed
Words: 13:ground. On returning from our morning visit, we met a gentleman with a
Words: 14:coloured lady on each arm. Craft remarked in a very dry manner, "If they
Words: 13:were in Georgia, the slaveholders would make them walk in a more hurried
Words: 14:gait than they do." I said to my friend, that if he meant the
Words: 10:pro-slavery prejudice would not suffer them to walk peaceably through
Words: 13:the streets, they need go no further than the pro-slavery cities of New
Words: 10:York and Philadelphia. When walking through the streets, I amused
Words: 12:myself, by watching Craft's countenance; and in doing so, imagined I saw
Words: 11:the changes experienced by every fugitive slave in his first month's
Words: 11:residence in this country. A sixteen months' residence has not yet
Words: 5:familiarized me with the change.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:       *       *       *       *       *
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 5:                    LAUREL BANK, _Jan. 18, 1851_.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:Dear Douglass,--I remained in Edinburgh a day or two after the
Words: 14:date of my last letter, which gave me an opportunity of seeing some of
Words: 13:the lions in the way of public buildings, &c., in company with our
Words: 13:friend Wm. Craft. I paid a visit to the Royal Institute, and inspected
Words: 11:the very fine collection of paintings, statues, and other productions of
Words: 13:art. The collection in the Institute is not to be compared to the
Words: 13:British Museum at London, or the Louvre at Paris, but is probably the
Words: 13:best in Scotland. Paintings from the hands of many of the masters, such
Words: 12:as Sir A. Vandyke, Tiziano, Vercellio and Van Dellen, were hanging on
Words: 13:the wall, and even the names of Reubens, and Titian, were attached to
Words: 13:some of the finer specimens. Many of these represent some of the nobles,
Words: 11:and distinguished families of Rome, Athens, Greece, &c. A beautiful one
Words: 12:representing a group of the Lomellini family of Genoa, seemed to attract
Words: 7:the attention of most of the visitors.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:In visiting this place, we passed close by the monument of Sir Walter
Words: 14:Scott. This is the most exquisite thing of the kind that I have seen
Words: 14:since coming to this country. It is said to be the finest monument in
Words: 13:Europe. There sits the author of "Waverley," with a book and pencil in
Words: 13:hand, taking notes. A beautiful dog is seated by his side. Whether this
Words: 13:is meant to represent his favourite dog, Camp, at whose death the Poet
Words: 15:shed so many tears, we were not informed; but I was of opinion that it
Words: 12:might be the faithful Percy, whose monument stands in the grounds at
Words: 13:Abbotsford. Scott was an admirer of the canine tribe. One may form a
Words: 11:good idea of the appearance of this distinguished writer, when living,
Words: 12:by viewing this remarkable statue. The statue is very beautiful, but not
Words: 15:equal to the one of Lord Byron, which was executed to be placed by the
Words: 10:side of Johnson, Milton, and Addison, in Poets' Corner, Westminster
Words: 13:Abbey; but the Parliament not allowing it a place there, it now stands
Words: 13:in one of the Colleges at Cambridge. While viewing the statue of Byron,
Words: 14:I thought he, too, should have been represented with a dog by his side,
Words: 14:for he, like Scott, was remarkably fond of dogs, so much so that he
Words: 10:intended to have his favourite, Boatswain, interred by his side.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:We paid a short visit to the monuments of Burns and Allan Ramsay, and
Words: 13:the renowned old Edinburgh Castle. The Castle is now used as a barrack
Words: 13:for Infantry. It is accessible only from the High Street, and must have
Words: 12:been impregnable before the discovery of gunpowder. In the wars with the
Words: 13:English, it was twice taken by stratagem; once in a very daring manner,
Words: 13:by climbing up the most inaccessible part of the rock upon which it
Words: 13:stands, and where a foe was least expected, and putting the guard to
Words: 12:death; and another time, by a party of soldiers disguising themselves as
Words: 9:merchants, and obtaining admission inside the Castle gates. They
Words: 11:succeeded in preventing the gates from being closed, until reinforced by
Words: 13:a party of men under Sir Wm. Douglas, who soon overpowered the occupants
Words: 3:of the Castle.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:We could not resist the temptation held out to see the Palace of
Words: 12:Holyrood. It was in this place that the beautiful, but unfortunate Mary,
Words: 13:Queen of Scots, resided for a number of years. On reaching the palace,
Words: 15:we were met at the door by an elderly looking woman, with a red face,
Words: 13:garnished with a pair of second-hand curls, the whole covered with a cap
Words: 15:having the widest border that I had seen for years. She was very kind in
Words: 11:showing us about the premises, especially as we were foreigners, no
Words: 12:doubt expecting an extra fee for politeness. The most interesting of the
Words: 14:many rooms in this ancient castle, is the one which was occupied by the
Words: 9:Queen, and where her Italian favourite, Rizzio, was murdered.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:But by far the most interesting object which we visited while in
Words: 10:Edinburgh, was the house where the celebrated Reformer, John Knox,
Words: 12:re-resided. It is a queer-looking old building, with a pulpit on the
Words: 12:outside, and above the door are the nearly obliterated remains of the
Words: 9:following inscription:--"Lufe. God. Above. Al. And. your. Nichbour. As
Words: 11:you. Self." This was probably traced under the immediate direction of
Words: 13:the great Reformer. Such an inscription put upon a house of worship at
Words: 13:the present day, would be laughed at. I have given it to you,
Words: 7:punctuation and all, just as it stands.
Words: 0:
Words: 10:The general architecture of Edinburgh is very imposing, whether we
Words: 12:regard the picturesque disorder of the buildings, in the Old Town, or
Words: 12:the symmetrical proportions of the streets and squares in the New. But
Words: 13:on viewing this city which has the reputation of being the finest in
Words: 13:Europe, I was surprised to find that it had none of those sumptuous
Words: 10:structures, which like St. Paul's, or Westminster Abbey, York Minster,
Words: 10:and some other of the English provincial Cathedrals, astonish the
Words: 10:beholder alike by their magnitude and their architectural splendour. But
Words: 14:in no city which I have visited in the kingdom, is the general standard
Words: 7:of excellence better maintained than in Edinburgh.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:I am not sure, my dear friend, whether or not I mentioned in my last
Words: 13:letter the attendance of Wm. Craft and myself at a splendid Soiree of
Words: 11:the Edinburgh Temperance Society, and our being voted in life members,
Words: 13:in the most enthusiastic manner, by the whole audience. I will here give
Words: 14:you a part of the speech of the President, as reported in the _Christian
Words: 9:News_. This should cause the pro-slavery whites, and especially
Words: 12:negro-hating Sons of Temperance, who refuse the coloured man a place in
Words: 12:their midst, to feel ashamed of their unchristian conduct. Here it is,
Words: 5:let them judge for themselves:--
Words: 0:
Words: 14:"A great feature in our meeting to-night, is that we have beside us two
Words: 9:individuals, who, according to the immaculate laws of immaculate
Words: 10:Yankeedom, have been guilty of the tremendous crime of stealing
Words: 11:themselves. (Applause.) Mr. Craft, who sits beside me, has stolen his
Words: 12:good wife, and Mrs. Craft has stolen her worthy husband; and our
Words: 13:respected friend, Mr. Brown, has cast a covetous eye on his own person.
Words: 12:In the name of the Temperance reformers of Edinburgh--in the name of
Words: 12:universal Scotland, I would welcome these two victims of the white man's
Words: 11:pride, ambition, selfishness, and cupidity. I welcome them as our equals
Words: 11:in every respect. (Great applause.) What a humiliating thought it will
Words: 13:be, surely, for our American friends on the other side of the water,
Words: 14:when they hear (and we shall endeavour to let them hear) that the very
Words: 14:man whom they consider not worthy to sit in a third class carriage along
Words: 15:with a white man, and that too in a district of country where the very
Words: 9:aristocracy deal in cheap cheese--(great applause) traffic in tallow
Words: 12:candles, and spend their nights and days among raw hides and train
Words: 11:oil--(applause)--what a humbling thought it will be for them to know
Words: 14:that these very men in the centre of educated Scotland, in the midst of
Words: 13:educated Edinburgh, are thought fit to hold even the first rank upon our
Words: 11:aristocratic platform. Let us, then, my friends, lift our voices this
Words: 11:evening in one swelling chorus for the down-trodden slave. Let us
Words: 12:publish abroad the fact to the world, that the sympathies of Scotland
Words: 13:are with the bondsman everywhere. Let us unite our voices to cry, Down
Words: 10:with the iniquitous Slave Bill!--Down with the aristocracy of the
Words: 8:skin!--Perish forever the deepest-dyed, the hardest-hearted system of
Words: 9:abomination under heaven!--Perish the sum of all villanies! Perish
Words: 4:American slavery. (Great applause.)"
Words: 0:
Words: 13:But I must leave the good and hospitable people of the Scottish Capital
Words: 14:for the present. I have taken an elaborate stock of notes, and may speak
Words: 3:of Edinburgh again.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:I left William and Ellen Craft (the latter of whom has just come to
Words: 13:Edinburgh), and took the Glasgow train, and after a ride of two hours
Words: 11:through a beautiful country, with its winding hills on either side--its
Words: 10:fertile fields, luxuriant woods, and stately mansions lying around us,
Words: 14:arrived in the muddy, dirty, smoky, foggy city of Glasgow. As I had had
Words: 11:a standing invitation from a distinguished gentleman with whom I became
Words: 12:acquainted in London, to partake of his hospitality, should I ever visit
Words: 11:Glasgow, and again received a note while in Edinburgh renewing the
Words: 11:invitation, I proceeded to his residence at Partick, three miles from
Words: 14:Glasgow. This is one of the loveliest spots which I have yet seen. Our
Words: 14:mansion is on the side of Laurel Bank, a range of the Kilpatrick hills.
Words: 8:We have a view of the surrounding country.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:On Monday evening, Jan. 6, a public meeting was held in the City Hall,
Words: 13:to extend a welcome to the American fugitive slaves. The hall, one of
Words: 13:the largest in the kingdom, was filled at an early hour. At the
Words: 10:appointed time, Alex. Hastie, Esq., M.P., entered the great room,
Words: 11:followed by the fugitives and most of the leading abolitionists, amid
Words: 11:rapturous applause. With a Member of Parliament in the chair, and
Words: 12:almost any number of clergymen on the platform, the meeting had an
Words: 11:influential appearance. From report, I had imbibed the opinion that the
Words: 13:Scotch were not easily moved, but if I may judge from the enthusiasm
Words: 11:which characterised the City Hall demonstration, I should place them but
Words: 11:little behind the English. After an excellent speech from the Chairman,
Words: 9:and spirited addresses from several clergymen, William Craft was
Words: 13:introduced to the meeting, and gave an account of the escape of himself
Words: 11:and wife from slavery, and their subsequent flight from Boston. Any
Words: 13:description of mine would give but a poor idea of the intense feeling
Words: 13:that pervaded the meeting. I think all who were there, left the hall
Words: 11:after hearing that noble fugitive, with a greater abhorrence of American
Words: 5:slavery than they previously entertained.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XIV.
Words: 0:
Words: 6:_Stirling--Dundee--Dr. Dick--Geo. Gilfillan--Dr. Dick at home._
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 5:                    PERTH, SCOTLAND, _Jan. 31, 1851_.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:I am glad once more to breathe an atmosphere uncontaminated by the fumes
Words: 12:and smoke of a city with its population of three hundred thousand
Words: 12:inhabitants. In company with our friends Wm. and Ellen Craft, I left
Words: 13:Glasgow on the afternoon of the 23d inst., for Dundee, a beautiful town
Words: 14:situated on the banks of the river Tay. One like myself, who has spent
Words: 16:the best part of an eventful life in cities, and who prefers, as I do, a
Words: 12:country to a town life, feels a greater degree of freedom when
Words: 11:surrounded by forest trees, or country dwellings, and looking upon a
Words: 11:clear sky, than when walking through the thronged thoroughfares of a
Words: 12:city, with its dense population, meeting every moment a new or strange
Words: 13:face which one has never seen before, and never expects to see again.
Words: 13:Although I had met with one of the warmest public receptions with which
Words: 14:I have been greeted since my arrival in the country, and had had an
Words: 12:opportunity of shaking hands with many noble friends of the slave, whose
Words: 15:names I had often seen in print, yet I felt glad to see the tall
Words: 12:chimneys and smoke of Glasgow receding in the distance, as our 'iron
Words: 11:horse' was taking us with almost lightning speed from the commercial
Words: 3:capital of Scotland.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:The distance from Glasgow to Dundee is some seventy or eighty miles, and
Words: 13:we passed through the finest country which I have seen in this portion
Words: 12:of the Queen's dominions. We passed through the old town of Stirling,
Words: 13:which lies about thirty miles distant from Glasgow, and is a place much
Words: 14:frequented by those who travel for pleasure. It is built on the brow of
Words: 14:a hill, and the Castle from which it most probably derived its name, may
Words: 13:be seen from a distance. Had it not been for a "professional" engagement
Words: 14:the same evening at Dundee, I would most assuredly have halted to take a
Words: 5:look at the old building.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:The Castle is situated or built on an isolated rock, which seems as if
Words: 14:Nature had thrown it there for that purpose. It was once the retreat of
Words: 11:the Scottish Kings, and famous for its historical associations. Here the
Words: 13:"Lady of the Lake," with the magic ring, sought the monarch to intercede
Words: 13:for her father; here James II. murdered the Earl of Douglas; here the
Words: 12:beautiful but unfortunate Mary was made Queen; and here John Knox, the
Words: 11:Reformer, preached the coronation sermon of James VI. The Castle Hill
Words: 12:rises from the valley of the Forth, and makes an imposing and
Words: 12:picturesque appearance. The windings of the noble river till lost in the
Words: 8:distance, present pleasing contrasts, scarcely to be surpassed.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:The speed of our train, after passing Stirling, brought before us, in
Words: 12:quick succession, a number of fine valleys and farm houses. Every spot
Words: 13:seemed to have been arrayed by Nature for the reception of the cottage
Words: 13:of some happy family. During this ride, we passed many sites where the
Words: 10:lawns were made, the terraces defined and levelled, the groves
Words: 11:tastefully clumped, the ancient trees, though small when compared to our
Words: 11:great forest oaks, were beautifully sprinkled here and there, and in
Words: 12:everything the labour of art seemed to have been anticipated by Nature.
Words: 11:Cincinnatus could not have selected a prettier situation for a farm,
Words: 10:than some which presented themselves, during this delightful journey. At
Words: 13:last we arrived at the place of our destination, where our friends were
Words: 4:in waiting for us.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:As I have already forwarded to you a paper containing an account of the
Words: 12:Dundee meeting, I shall leave you to judge from these reports the
Words: 12:character of the demonstration. Yet I must mention a fact or two
Words: 13:connected with our first evening's visit to this town. A few hours after
Words: 14:our arrival in the place, we were called upon by a gentleman whose name
Words: 12:is known wherever the English language is spoken--one whose name is on
Words: 12:the tongue of every student and school-boy in this country and America,
Words: 13:and what lives upon their lips will live and be loved for ever.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:We were seated over a cup of strong tea, to revive our spirits for the
Words: 11:evening, when our friend entered the room, accompanied by a gentleman,
Words: 11:small in stature, and apparently seventy-five years of age, yet he
Words: 13:appeared as active as one half that age. Feeling half drowsy from riding
Words: 15:in the cold, and then the sudden change to a warm fire, I was rather
Words: 14:inclined not to move on the entrance of the stranger. But the name of
Words: 13:Thomas Dick, LL.D., roused me in a moment, from my lethargy; I could
Words: 11:scarcely believe that I was in the presence of the "Christian
Words: 15:Philosopher." Dr. Dick is one of the men to whom the age is indebted. I
Words: 15:never find myself in the presence of one to whom the world owes so much
Words: 14:as Dr. Dick, without feeling a thrilling emotion, as if I were in the
Words: 13:land of spirits. Dr. Dick had come to our lodgings to see and
Words: 11:congratulate Wm. and Ellen Craft upon their escape from the republican
Words: 13:Christians of the United States; and as he pressed the hand of the
Words: 13:"white slave," and bid her "welcome to British soil," I saw the silent
Words: 14:tear stealing down the cheek of this man of genius. How I wished that
Words: 9:the many slaveholders and pro-slavery professed Christians of America,
Words: 13:who have read and pondered the philosophy of this man, could have been
Words: 11:present. Thomas Dick is an abolitionist--one who is willing that the
Words: 11:world should know that he hates the "peculiar institution." At the
Words: 12:meeting that evening, Dr. Dick was among the most prominent. But this
Words: 12:was not the only distinguished man who took part on that occasion.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Another great mind was on the platform, and entered his solemn protest
Words: 14:in a manner long to be remembered by those present. This was the Rev.
Words: 12:George Gilfillan, well known as the author of the "Portraits of Literary
Words: 12:Men." Mr. Gilfillan is an energetic speaker, and would have been the
Words: 13:lion of the evening, even if many others who are more distinguished as
Words: 13:platform orators had been present. I think it was Napoleon who said that
Words: 13:the enthusiasm of others abated his own. At any rate, the spirit with
Words: 13:which each speaker entered upon his duty for the evening, abated my own
Words: 14:enthusiasm for the time being. The last day of our stay in Dundee, I
Words: 14:paid a visit, by invitation, to Dr. Dick, at his residence in the little
Words: 12:village of Broughty Ferry. We found the great astronomer in his parlour
Words: 15:waiting for us. From the parlour we went to the new study, and here I
Words: 15:felt more at ease, for I went to see the Philosopher in his study, and
Words: 14:not in his drawing-room. But even this room had too much the look of
Words: 13:nicety to be an author's _sanctum_; and I inquired and was soon informed
Words: 13:by Mrs. Dick, that I should have a look at the "_old study_."
Words: 0:
Words: 13:During a sojourn of eighteen months in Great Britain, I have had the
Words: 10:good fortune to meet with several distinguished literary characters, and
Words: 13:have always managed, while at their places of abode, to see the table
Words: 13:and favourite chair. Wm. and Ellen Craft were seeing what they could see
Words: 12:through a microscope, when Mrs. Dick returned to the room, and intimated
Words: 13:that we could now see the old literary workshop. I followed, and was
Words: 13:soon in a room about fifteen feet square, with but one window, which
Words: 14:occupied one side of the room. The walls of the other three sides were
Words: 12:lined with books. And many of these looked the very personification of
Words: 15:age. I took my seat in the "_old arm chair_;" and here, thought I, is
Words: 12:the place and the seat in which this distinguished man sat, while
Words: 13:weaving the radiant wreath of renown which now in his old age surrounds
Words: 13:him, and whose labours will be more appreciated by future ages than the
Words: 1:present.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:I took a farewell of the author of the "Solar System," but not until I
Words: 12:had taken a look through the great telescope in the observatory. This
Words: 13:instrument, through which I tried to see the heavens, was not the one
Words: 11:invented by Galileo, but an improvement upon the original. On leaving
Words: 15:this learned man, he shook hands with us, and bade us "God speed" in our
Words: 13:mission; and I left the philosopher, feeling I had not passed an hour
Words: 12:more agreeably, with a literary character, since the hour which I spent
Words: 12:with Poet Montgomery a few months since. And, by-the-bye, there is a
Words: 10:resemblance between the poet and the philosopher. In becoming acquainted
Words: 15:with great men, I have become a convert to the opinion, that a big nose
Words: 14:is an almost necessary appendage to the form of a man with a giant
Words: 13:intellect. If those whom I have seen be a criterion, such is certainly
Words: 13:the case. But I have spun out this too long, and must close.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XV.
Words: 0:
Words: 7:_Melrose Abbey--Abbotsford--Dryburgh Abbey--The Grave of Sir Walter
Words: 5:Scott--Hawick--Gretna Green--Visit to the Lakes._
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 4:                    YORK, _March 26, 1851_.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:I closed my last letter in the ancient town of Melrose, on the banks of
Words: 13:the Tweed, and within a stone's throw of the celebrated ruins from which
Words: 13:the town derives its name. The valley in which Melrose is situated, and
Words: 11:the surrounding hills, together with the Monastery, have so often been
Words: 13:made a theme for the Scottish bards, that this has become the most
Words: 12:interesting part of Scotland. Of the many gifted writers who have taken
Words: 14:up the pen, none have done more to bring the Eildon Hills and Melrose
Words: 13:Abbey into note, than the author of "Waverley." But who can read his
Words: 13:writings without a regret, that he should have so woven fact and fiction
Words: 11:together, that it is almost impossible to discriminate between the one
Words: 3:and the other.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:We arrived at Melrose in the evening, and proceeded to the chapel where
Words: 13:our meeting was to be held, and where our friends, the Crafts, were
Words: 12:warmly greeted. On returning from the meeting, we passed close by the
Words: 12:ruins of Melrose, and, very fortunately, it was a moonlight night. There
Words: 11:is considerable difference of opinion among the inhabitants of the place
Words: 15:as regards the best time to view the Abbey. The author of the "Lay of
Words: 4:the Last Minstrel," says:--
Words: 0:
Words: 7:   "If thou wouldst view fair Melrose aright,
Words: 7:    Go visit it by the pale moonlight:
Words: 7:    For the gay beams of lightsome day
Words: 7:    Gild but to flout the ruins gray."
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 11:In consequence of this admonition, I was informed that many persons
Words: 14:remain in town to see the ruins by moonlight. Aware that the moon did
Words: 15:not send its rays upon the old building every night in the year, I asked
Words: 15:the keeper what he did on dark nights. He replied that he had a large
Words: 15:lantern, which he put upon the end of a long pole, and with this he
Words: 12:succeeded in lighting up the ruins. This good man laboured hard to
Words: 13:convince me that his invention was nearly, if not quite as good, as
Words: 13:Nature's own moon. But having no need of an application of his invention
Words: 14:to the Abbey, I had no opportunity of judging of its effect. I thought,
Words: 14:however, that he had made a moon to some purpose, when he informed me
Words: 14:that some nights, with his pole and lantern, he earned his four or five
Words: 13:shillings. Not being content with a view by "moonlight alone," I was up
Words: 14:the next morning before the sun, and paid my respects to the Abbey. I
Words: 14:was too early for the keeper, and he handed me the key through the
Words: 13:window, and I entered the rooms alone. It is one labyrinth of gigantic
Words: 11:arches and dilapidated halls, the ivy growing and clinging wherever it
Words: 14:can fasten its roots, and the whole as fine a picture of decay as
Words: 11:imagination could create. This was the favourite resort of Sir Walter
Words: 13:Scott, and furnished him much matter for the "Lay of the Last Minstrel."
Words: 12:He could not have selected a more fitting place for solitary thought
Words: 12:than this ancient abode of monks and priests. In passing through the
Words: 12:cloisters, I could not but remark the carvings of leaves and flowers,
Words: 13:wrought in stone in the most exquisite manner, looking as fresh as if
Words: 13:they were just from the hands of the artist. The lapse of centuries
Words: 12:seems not to have made any impression upon them, or changed their
Words: 14:appearance in the least. I sat down among the ruins of the Abbey. The
Words: 10:ground about was piled up with magnificent fragments of stone,
Words: 11:representing various texts of Scripture, and the quaint ideas of the
Words: 13:priests and monks of that age. Scene after scene swept through my fancy
Words: 13:as I looked upon the surrounding objects. I could almost imagine I saw
Words: 14:the bearded monks going from hall to hall, and from cell to cell. In
Words: 13:visiting these dark cells, the mind becomes oppressed by a sense of the
Words: 11:utter helplessness of the victims who once passed over the thresholds
Words: 13:and entered these religious prisons. There was no help or hope but in
Words: 14:the will that ordered their fate. How painful it is to gaze upon these
Words: 14:walls, and to think how many tears have been shed by their inmates, when
Words: 15:this old Monastery was in its glory. I ascended to the top of the ruin
Words: 13:by a circuitous stairway, whose stone steps were worn deep from use by
Words: 13:many who, like myself, had visited them to gratify a curiosity. From the
Words: 14:top of the Abbey, I had a splendid view of the surrounding hills and
Words: 12:the beautiful valley through which flows the Gala Water and Tweed. This
Words: 9:is unquestionably the most splendid specimen of Gothic architectural
Words: 14:ruin in Scotland. But any description of mine conveys but a poor idea to
Words: 9:the fancy. To be realized, it must be seen.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:During the day, we paid a visit to Abbotsford, the splendid mansion of
Words: 13:the late Sir Walter Scott, Bart. This beautiful seat is situated on the
Words: 15:banks of the Tweed, just below its junction with the Gala Water. It is a
Words: 13:dreary looking spot, and the house from the opposite side of the river
Words: 13:has the appearance of a small, low castle. In a single day's ride
Words: 11:through England, one may see half a dozen cottages larger than
Words: 10:Abbotsford House. I was much disappointed in finding the premises
Words: 11:undergoing repairs and alterations, and that all the trees between the
Words: 15:house and the river had been cut down. This is to be regretted the more,
Words: 13:because they were planted, nearly every one of them, by the same hand
Words: 13:that waved its wand of enchantment over the world. The fountain had been
Words: 15:removed from where it had been placed by the hands of the Poet to the
Words: 15:centre of the yard; and even a small stone that had been placed over the
Words: 12:favourite dog "Percy," had been taken up and thrown among some loose
Words: 13:stones. One visits Abbotsford because of the genius of the man that once
Words: 11:presided over it. Everything connected with the great Poet is of
Words: 11:interest to his admirers, and anything altered or removed, tends to
Words: 11:diminish that interest. We entered the house, and were conducted through
Words: 13:the great Hall, which is hung all round with massive armour of all
Words: 11:descriptions, and other memorials of ancient times. The floor is of
Words: 13:white and black marble. In passing through the hall, we entered a narrow
Words: 11:arched room, stretching quite across the building, having a window at
Words: 14:each end. This little or rather narrow room is filled with all kinds of
Words: 13:armour, which is arranged with great taste. We were next shown into the
Words: 13:Dining-room, whose roof is of black oak, richly carved. In this room is
Words: 15:a painting of the head of Queen Mary, in a charger, taken the day after
Words: 11:the execution. Many other interesting portraits grace the walls of this
Words: 12:room. But by far the finest apartment in the building is the
Words: 10:Drawing-room, with a lofty ceiling, and furnished with antique ebony
Words: 10:furniture. After passing through the Library, with its twenty thousand
Words: 14:volumes, we found ourselves in the Study, and I sat down in the same
Words: 14:chair where once sat the Poet; while before me was the table upon which
Words: 12:was written the "Lady of the Lake," "Waverley," and other productions of
Words: 14:this gifted writer. The clothes last worn by the Poet were shown to us.
Words: 13:There was the broad skirted blue coat, with its large buttons, the plaid
Words: 13:trousers, the heavy shoes, the black vest and white hat. These were all
Words: 15:in a glass case, and all looked the poet and novelist. But the inside of
Words: 11:the buildings had undergone alterations as well as the outside. In
Words: 13:passing through the Library, we saw a granddaughter of the Poet. She was
Words: 16:from London, and was only on a visit of a few days. She looked pale and
Words: 13:dejected, and seemed as if she longed to leave this secluded spot and
Words: 13:return to the metropolis. She looked for all the world like a hothouse
Words: 12:plant. I don't think the Scotch could do better than to purchase
Words: 12:Abbotsford, while it has some imprint of the great magician, and secure
Words: 13:its preservation; for I am sure that, a hundred years hence, no place
Words: 13:will be more frequently visited in Scotland than the home of the late
Words: 11:Sir Walter Scott. After sauntering three hours about the premises, I
Words: 14:left, but not without feeling that I had been well paid for my trouble
Words: 3:in visiting Abbotsford.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:In the afternoon of the same day, in company with the Crafts, I took a
Words: 13:drive to Dryburgh Abbey. It is a ruin of little interest, except as
Words: 13:being the burial place of Scott. The poet lies buried in St. Mary's
Words: 14:Aisle. His grave is in the left transept of the cross, and close to
Words: 12:where the high altar formerly stood. Sir Walter Scott chose his own
Words: 14:grave, and he could not have selected a sunnier spot if he had roamed
Words: 15:the wide world over. A shaded window breaks the sun as it falls upon his
Words: 14:grave. The ivy is creeping and clinging wherever it can, as if it would
Words: 12:shelter the poet's grave from the weather. The author lies between his
Words: 14:wife and eldest son, and there is only room enough for one grave more,
Words: 11:and the son's wife has the choice of being buried here.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:The four o'clock train took us to Hawick; and after a pleasant visit in
Words: 10:this place, and the people registering their names against American
Words: 12:Slavery, and the Fugitive Bill in particular, we set out for Carlisle,
Words: 11:passing through the antique town of Langholm. After leaving the latter
Words: 15:place, we had to travel by coach. But no matter how one travels here, he
Words: 13:travels at a more rapid rate than in America. The distance from Langholm
Words: 12:to Carlisle, twenty miles, occupied only two and a-half hours in the
Words: 16:journey. It was a cold day and I had to ride on the outside, as the
Words: 14:inside had been taken up. We changed horses, and took in and put out
Words: 11:passengers with a rapidity which seems almost incredible. The road was
Words: 5:as smooth as a mirror.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:We bid farewell to Scotland, as we reached the little town of Gretna
Words: 12:Green. This town being on the line between England and Scotland, is
Words: 11:noted as the place where a little cross-eyed, red-faced blacksmith, by
Words: 14:the name of Priestly, first set up his own altar to Hymen, and married
Words: 15:all who came to him, without regard to rank or station, and at prices to
Words: 15:suit all. It was worth a ride through this part of the country, if for
Words: 12:no other purpose than to see the town where more clandestine marriages
Words: 16:have taken place than in any other part in the world. A ride of eight or
Words: 13:nine miles brought us in sight of the Eden, winding its way slowly
Words: 11:through a beautiful valley, with farms on either side, covered with
Words: 11:sheep and cattle. Four very tall chimneys, sending forth dense columns
Words: 14:of black smoke, announced to us that we were near Carlisle. I was really
Words: 14:glad of this, for Ulysses was never more tired of the shores of Ilion
Words: 8:than I of the top of that coach.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:We remained over night at Carlisle, partaking of the hospitality of the
Words: 15:prince of bakers, and left the next day for the Lakes, where we had a
Words: 12:standing invitation to pay a visit to a distinguished literary lady. A
Words: 13:cold ride of about fifty miles brought us to the foot of Lake
Words: 10:Windermere, a beautiful sheet of water, surrounded by mountains that
Words: 13:seemed to vie with each other which should approach nearest the sky. The
Words: 13:margin of the lake is carved out and built up into terrace above
Words: 12:terrace, until the slopes and windings are lost in the snow-capped peaks
Words: 12:of the mountains. It is not surprising that such men as Southey,
Words: 9:Coleridge, Wordsworth, and others, resorted to this region for
Words: 12:inspiration. After a coach ride of five miles (passing on our journey
Words: 14:the "Dove's Nest," home of the late Mrs. Hemans), we were put down at
Words: 12:the door of the Salutation Hotel, Ambleside, and a few minutes after
Words: 12:found ourselves under the roof of the authoress of "Society in America."
Words: 17:I know not how it is with others, but for my own part, I always form an
Words: 13:opinion of the appearance of an author whose writings I am at all
Words: 13:familiar with, or a statesman whose speeches I have read. I had pictured
Words: 14:in my own mind a tall, stately-looking lady of about sixty years, as the
Words: 14:authoress of "Travels in the East," and for once I was right, with the
Words: 13:single exception that I had added on too many years by twelve. The
Words: 12:evening was spent in talking about the United States; and William Craft
Words: 13:had to go through the narrative of his escape from slavery. When I
Words: 13:retired for the night, I found it almost impossible to sleep. The idea
Words: 15:that I was under the roof of the authoress of "The Hour and the Man,"
Words: 14:and that I was on the banks of the sweetest lake in Great Britain,
Words: 13:within half a mile of the residence of the late poet Wordsworth, drove
Words: 15:sleep from my pillow. But I must leave an account of my visit to the
Words: 5:Lakes for a future letter.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:When I look around and see the happiness here, even among the poorer
Words: 16:classes, and that too in a country where the soil is not at all to be
Words: 12:compared with our own, I mourn for our down-trodden countrymen, who are
Words: 10:plundered, oppressed, and made chattels of, to enable an ostentatious
Words: 9:aristocracy to vie with each other in splendid extravagance.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XVI.
Words: 0:
Words: 7:_Miss Martineau--"The Knoll"--"Ridal Mount"--"The Dove's Nest"--Grave of
Words: 5:William Wordsworth, Esq.--The English Peasant._
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 3:                    _May 30, 1851_.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:A series of public meetings, one pressing close upon the heel of
Words: 14:another, must be an apology for my six or eight weeks' silence. But I
Words: 14:hope that no temporary suspense on my part will be construed into a want
Words: 14:of interest in our cause, or a wish to desist from giving occasionally a
Words: 9:scrap (such as it is) to the _North Star_.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:My last letter left me under the hospitable roof of Harriet Martineau. I
Words: 12:had long had an invitation to visit this distinguished friend of our
Words: 12:race, and as the invitation was renewed during my tour through the
Words: 13:North, I did not feel disposed to decline it, and thereby lose so
Words: 13:favourable an opportunity of meeting with one who had written so much in
Words: 15:behalf of the oppressed of our land. About a mile from the head of Lake
Words: 9:Windermere, and immediately under Wonsfell, and encircled by mountains
Words: 12:on all sides, except the south-west, lies the picturesque little town of
Words: 12:Ambleside, and the brightest spot in the place is "The Knoll," the
Words: 4:residence of Miss Martineau.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:We reached "The Knoll" a little after nightfall, and a cordial shake of
Words: 16:the hand by Miss M., who was waiting for us, soon assured us that we had
Words: 5:met with a warm friend.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:It is not my intention to lay open the scenes of domestic life at "The
Words: 13:Knoll," nor to describe the social parties of which my friends and I
Words: 11:were partakers during our sojourn within the hospitable walls of this
Words: 12:distinguished writer; but the name of Miss M. is so intimately connected
Words: 11:with the Anti-slavery movement, by her early writings, and those have
Words: 14:been so much admired by the friends of the slave in the United States,
Words: 18:that I deem it not at all out of place for me to give the readers of the
Words: 11:_North Star_ some idea of the authoress of "Political Economy," "Travels
Words: 9:in the East," "The Hour and the Man," &c.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:The dwelling is a cottage of moderate size, built after Miss M.'s own
Words: 15:plan, upon a rise of land from which it derives the name of "The Knoll."
Words: 14:The Library is the largest room in the building, and upon the walls of
Words: 13:it were hung some beautiful engravings and a continental map. On a long
Words: 12:table which occupied the centre of the room, were the busts of
Words: 11:Shakspere, Newton, Milton, and a few other literary characters of the
Words: 16:past. One side of the room was taken up with a large case, filled with a
Words: 11:choice collection of books, and everything indicated that it was the
Words: 6:home of genius and of taste.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:The room usually occupied by Miss M., and where we found her on the
Words: 12:evening of our arrival, is rather small and lighted by two large
Words: 12:windows. The walls of this room were also decorated with prints and
Words: 12:pictures, and on the mantle-shelf were some models in _terra cottia_ of
Words: 12:Italian groups. On a circular table lay casts, medallions, and some very
Words: 11:choice water-colour drawings. Under the south window stood a small table
Words: 11:covered with newly opened letters, a portfolio and several new books,
Words: 14:with here and there a page turned down, and one with a paper knife
Words: 16:between its leaves as if it had only been half read. I took up the last
Words: 12:mentioned, and it proved to be the "Life and Poetry of Hartly
Words: 13:Coleridge," son of S.T. Coleridge. It was just from the press, and had,
Words: 15:a day or two before, been forwarded to her by the publisher. Miss M. is
Words: 16:very deaf and always carries in her left hand a trumpet; and I was not a
Words: 12:little surprised on learning from her that she had never enjoyed the
Words: 14:sense of smell, and only on one occasion the sense of taste, and that
Words: 15:for a single moment. Miss M. is loved with a sort of idolatry by the
Words: 12:people of Ambleside, and especially the poor, to whom she gives a
Words: 10:course of lectures every winter gratuitously. She finished her last
Words: 12:course the day before our arrival. She was much pleased with Ellen
Words: 11:Craft, and appeared delighted with the story of herself and husband's
Words: 11:escape from slavery, as related by the latter--during the recital of
Words: 13:which I several times saw the silent tear stealing down her cheek, and
Words: 9:which she tried in vain to hide from us.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:When Craft had finished, she exclaimed, "I would that every woman in the
Words: 14:British Empire, could hear that tale as I have, so that they might know
Words: 14:how their own sex was treated in that boasted land of liberty." It seems
Words: 14:strange to the people of this county, that one so white and so lady-like
Words: 15:as Mrs. Craft, should have been a slave and forced to leave the land of
Words: 13:her nativity and seek an asylum in a foreign country. The morning after
Words: 14:our arrival, I took a stroll by a circuitous pathway to the top of
Words: 14:Loughrigg Fell. At the foot of the mount I met a peasant, who very
Words: 13:kindly offered to lend me his donkey, upon which to ascend the mountain.
Words: 14:Never having been upon the back of one of these long eared animals, I
Words: 11:felt some hesitation about trusting myself upon so diminutive looking a
Words: 13:creature. But being assured that if I would only resign myself to his
Words: 15:care and let him have his own way, I would be perfectly safe, I mounted,
Words: 13:and off we set. We had, however, scarcely gone fifty rods, when, in
Words: 14:passing over a narrow part of the path and overlooking a deep chasm, one
Words: 13:of the hind feet of the donkey slipped, and with an involuntary shudder,
Words: 13:I shut my eyes to meet my expected doom; but fortunately the little
Words: 13:fellow gained his foothold, and in all probability saved us both from a
Words: 11:premature death. After we had passed over this dangerous place, I
Words: 14:dismounted, and as soon as my feet had once more gained _terra firma_, I
Words: 14:resolved that I would never again yield my own judgment to that of any
Words: 6:one, not even to a donkey.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:It seems as if Nature has amused herself in throwing these mountains
Words: 14:together. From the top of the Loughrigg Fell, the eye loses its power in
Words: 12:gazing upon the objects below. On our left, lay Rydal Mount, the
Words: 13:beautiful seat of the late poet Wordsworth. While to the right, and away
Words: 13:in the dim distance, almost hidden by the native trees, was the cottage
Words: 11:where once resided Mrs. Hemans. And below us lay Windermere, looking
Words: 16:more like a river than a lake, and which, if placed by the side of our
Words: 15:own Ontario, Erie or Huron, would be lost in the fog. But here it looks
Words: 13:beautiful in the extreme, surrounded as it is by a range of mountains
Words: 14:that have no parallel in the United States for beauty. Amid a sun of
Words: 11:uncommon splendour, dazzling the eye with the reflection upon the water
Words: 14:below, we descended into the valley, and I was soon again seated by the
Words: 13:fireside of our hospitable hostess. In the afternoon of the same day, we
Words: 14:took a drive to the "Dove's Nest," the home of the late Mrs. Hemans.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:We did not see the inside of the house, on account of its being occupied
Words: 15:by a very eccentric man, who will not permit a woman to enter the house,
Words: 15:and it is said that he has been known to run when a female had
Words: 11:unconsciously intruded herself upon his premises. And as our company was
Words: 13:in part composed of ladies, we had to share their fate, and therefore
Words: 11:were prevented from seeing the interior of the Dove's Nest. The
Words: 15:exhibitor of such a man would be almost sure of a prize at the great
Words: 1:Exhibition.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:At the head of Grassmere Lake, and surrounded by a few cottages, stands
Words: 11:an old gray, antique-looking Parish Church, venerable with the lapse of
Words: 13:centuries, and the walls partly covered with ivy, and in the rear of
Words: 11:which is the parish burial-ground. After leaving the Dove's Nest, and
Words: 12:having a pleasant ride over the hills and between the mountains, and
Words: 14:just as the sun was disappearing behind them, we arrived at the gate of
Words: 11:Grassmere Church; and alighting and following Miss M., we soon found
Words: 12:ourselves standing over a grave, marked by a single stone, and that,
Words: 14:too, very plain, with a name deeply cut. This announced to us that we
Words: 12:were standing over the grave of William Wordsworth. He chose his own
Words: 14:grave, and often visited the spot before his death. He lies in the most
Words: 12:sequestered spot in the whole grounds, and the simplicity and beauty of
Words: 17:the place was enough to make one in love with it, to be laid so far from
Words: 15:the bustle of the world, and in so sweet a place. The more one becomes
Words: 13:acquainted with the literature of the old world, the more he must love
Words: 14:her poets. Among the teachers of men, none are more worthy of study than
Words: 13:the poets; and, as teachers, they should receive far more credit than is
Words: 13:yielded to them. No one can look back upon the lives of Dante,
Words: 11:Shakspere, Milton, Goethe, Cowper, and many others that we might name,
Words: 11:without being reminded of the sacrifices which they made for mankind,
Words: 12:and which were not appreciated until long after their deaths. We need
Words: 14:look no farther than our own country to find men and women wielding the
Words: 12:pen practically and powerfully for the right. It is acknowledged on all
Words: 12:hands in this country, that England has the greatest dead poets, and
Words: 12:America the greatest living ones. The poet and the true Christian have
Words: 14:alike a hidden life. Worship is the vital element of each. Poetry has in
Words: 14:it that kind of utility which good men find in their Bible, rather than
Words: 13:such convenience as bad men often profess to draw from it. It ennobles
Words: 9:the sentiments, enlarges the affections, kindles the imagination, and
Words: 16:gives to us the enjoyment of a life in the past, and in the future, as
Words: 14:well as in the present. Under its light and warmth, we wake from our
Words: 11:torpidity and coldness, to a sense of our capabilities. This impulse
Words: 12:once given, a great object is gained. Schiller has truly said, "Poetry
Words: 17:can be to a man, what love is to a hero. It can neither counsel him nor
Words: 16:smite him, nor perform any labour for him, but it can bring him up to be
Words: 15:a hero, can summon him to deeds, and arm him with strength for all he
Words: 14:ought to be." I have often read with pleasure the sweet poetry of our
Words: 13:own Whitfield of Buffalo, which has appeared from time to time in the
Words: 14:columns of the _North Star_. I have always felt ashamed of the fact that
Words: 14:he should be compelled to wield the razor instead of the pen for a
Words: 12:living. Meaner poets than James M. Whitfield, are now living by their
Words: 12:compositions; and were he a white man he would occupy a different
Words: 1:position.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:After remaining a short time, and reading the epitaphs of the departed,
Words: 13:we again returned to "The Knoll." Nothing can be more imposing than the
Words: 12:beauty of English park scenery, and especially in the vicinity of the
Words: 11:lakes. Magnificent lawns that extend like sheets of vivid green, with
Words: 13:here and there a sprinkling of fine trees, heaping up rich piles of
Words: 13:foliage, and then the forests with the hare, the deer, and the rabbit,
Words: 12:bounding away to the covert, or the pheasant suddenly bursting upon the
Words: 10:wing--the artificial stream, the brook taught to wind in natural
Words: 11:meanderings, or expand into the glassy lake, with the yellow leaf
Words: 11:sleeping upon its bright waters, and occasionally a rustic temple or
Words: 14:sylvan statue grown green and dark with age, give an air of sanctity and
Words: 11:picturesque beauty to English scenery that is unknown in the United
Words: 12:States. The very labourer with his thatched cottage and narrow slip of
Words: 10:ground-plot before the door, the little flower-bed, the woodbine trimmed
Words: 12:against the wall, and hanging its blossoms about the windows, and the
Words: 13:peasant seen trudging home at nightfall with the avails of the toil of
Words: 14:the day upon his back--all this tells us of the happiness both of rich
Words: 14:and poor in this country. And yet there are those who would have the
Words: 13:world believe that the labourer of England is in a far worse condition
Words: 12:than the slaves of America. Such persons know nothing of the real
Words: 13:condition of the working classes of this country. At any rate, the poor
Words: 17:here, as well as the rich, are upon a level, as far as the laws of the
Words: 11:country are concerned. The more one becomes acquainted with the English
Words: 14:people, the more one has to admire them. They are so different from the
Words: 11:people of our own country. Hospitality, frankness, and good humour, are
Words: 14:always to be found in an Englishman. After a ramble of three days about
Words: 11:the lakes, we mounted the coach, bidding Miss Martineau farewell, and
Words: 4:quitted the lake district.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XVII.
Words: 0:
Words: 6:_A Day in the Crystal Palace._
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 4:                    LONDON, _June 27th, 1851_.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:Presuming that you will expect from me some account of the great World's
Words: 15:Fair, I take my pen to give you my own impressions, although I am afraid
Words: 14:that anything which I may say about this "Lion of the day," will fall
Words: 14:far short of a description. On Monday last, I quitted my lodgings at an
Words: 13:early hour, and started for the Crystal Palace. This day was fine, such
Words: 12:as we seldom experience in London, with a clear sky, and invigorating
Words: 14:air, whose vitality was as rousing to the spirits as a blast from the
Words: 13:"horn of Astolpho." Although it was not yet 10 o'clock when I entered
Words: 12:Piccadilly, every omnibus was full, inside and out, and the street was
Words: 14:lined with one living stream, as far as the eye could reach, all wending
Words: 12:their way to the "Glass-House." No metropolis in the world presents such
Words: 11:facilities as London for the reception of the Great Exhibition, now
Words: 11:collected within its walls. Throughout its myriads of veins, the stream
Words: 12:of industry and toil pulses with sleepless energy. Every one seems to
Words: 13:feel that this great Capital of the world, is the fittest place wherein
Words: 14:they might offer homage to the dignity of toil. I had already begun to
Words: 12:feel fatigued by my pedestrian excursion as I passed "Apsley House," the
Words: 11:residence of the Duke of Wellington, and emerged into Hyde Park.
Words: 0:
Words: 16:I had hoped that on getting into the Park, I would be out of the crowd
Words: 14:that seemed to press so heavily in the street. But in this I was
Words: 11:mistaken. I here found myself surrounded by and moving with an
Words: 12:overwhelming mass, such as I had never before witnessed. And, away in
Words: 13:the distance, I beheld a dense crowd, and above every other object, was
Words: 14:seen the lofty summit of the Crystal Palace. The drive in the Park was
Words: 9:lined with princely-looking vehicles of every description. The drivers
Words: 13:in their bright red and gold uniforms, the pages and footmen in their
Words: 12:blue trousers and white silk stockings, and the horses dressed up in
Words: 10:their neat, silver-mounted harness, made the scene altogether one of
Words: 13:great splendour. I was soon at the door, paid my shilling, and entered
Words: 14:the building at the south end of the Transept. For the first ten or
Words: 12:twenty minutes I was so lost in astonishment, and absorbed in pleasing
Words: 15:wonder, that I could do nothing but gaze up and down the vista of the
Words: 10:noble building. The Crystal Palace resembles in some respects, the
Words: 13:interior of the cathedrals of this country. One long avenue from east to
Words: 12:west is intersected by a Transept, which divides the building into two
Words: 12:nearly equal parts. This is the greatest building the world ever saw,
Words: 12:before which the Pyramids of Egypt, and the Colossus of Rhodes must
Words: 13:hide their diminished heads. The palace was not full at any time during
Words: 12:the day, there being only 64,000 persons present. Those who love to
Words: 11:study the human countenance in all its infinite varieties, can find
Words: 14:ample scope for the indulgence of their taste, by a visit to the World's
Words: 7:Fair. All countries are there represented--Europeans, Asiatics,
Words: 9:Americans and Africans, with their numerous subdivisions. Even the
Words: 12:exclusive Chinese, with his hair braided, and hanging down his back, has
Words: 13:left the land of his nativity, and is seen making long strides through
Words: 11:the Crystal Palace, in his wooden-bottomed shoes. Of all places of
Words: 10:curious costumes and different fashions, none has ever yet presented
Words: 15:such a variety as this Exhibition. No dress is too absurd to be worn in
Words: 2:this place.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:There is a great deal of freedom in the Exhibition. The servant who
Words: 12:walks behind his mistress through the Park feels that he can crowd
Words: 12:against her in the Exhibition. The Queen and the day labourer, the
Words: 13:Prince and the merchant, the peer and the pauper, the Celt and the
Words: 14:Saxon, the Greek and the Frank, the Hebrew and the Russ, all meet here
Words: 11:upon terms of perfect equality. This amalgamation of rank, this kindly
Words: 10:blending of interests, and forgetfulness of the cold formalities of
Words: 13:ranks and grades, cannot but be attended with the very best results. I
Words: 14:was pleased to see such a goodly sprinkling of my own countrymen in the
Words: 8:Exhibition--I mean coloured men and women--well-dressed, and moving
Words: 10:about with their fairer brethren. This, some of our pro-slavery
Words: 15:Americans did not seem to relish very well. There was no help for it. As
Words: 13:I walked through the American part of the Crystal Palace, some of our
Words: 10:Virginian neighbours eyed me closely and with jealous looks, especially
Words: 14:as an English lady was leaning on my arm. But their sneering looks did
Words: 13:not disturb me in the least. I remained the longer in their department,
Words: 12:and criticised the bad appearance of their goods the more. Indeed, the
Words: 12:Americans, as far as appearance goes, are behind every other country in
Words: 12:the Exhibition. The "Greek Slave" is the only production of Art which
Words: 14:the United States has sent. And it would have been more to their credit
Words: 15:had they kept that at home. In so vast a place as the Great Exhibition
Words: 14:one scarcely knows what to visit first, or what to look upon last. After
Words: 13:wandering about through the building for five hours, I sat down in one
Words: 13:of the galleries and looked at the fine marble statue of Virginius, with
Words: 15:the knife in his hand and about to take the life of his beloved and
Words: 12:beautiful daughter, to save her from the hands of Appius Claudius. The
Words: 12:admirer of genius will linger for hours among the great variety of
Words: 12:statues in the long avenue. Large statues of Lords Eldon and Stowell,
Words: 12:carved out of solid marble, each weighing above twenty tons, are among
Words: 6:the most gigantic in the building.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:I was sitting with my 400 paged guide-book before me, and looking down
Words: 14:upon the moving mass, when my attention was called to a small group of
Words: 12:gentlemen standing near the statue of Shakspere, one of whom wore a
Words: 13:white coat and hat, and had flaxen hair, and trousers rather short in
Words: 15:the legs. The lady by my side, and who had called my attention to the
Words: 12:group, asked if I could tell what country this odd-looking gentleman was
Words: 14:from? Not wishing to run the risk of a mistake, I was about declining
Words: 13:to venture an opinion, when the reflection of the sun against a mirror,
Words: 12:on the opposite side, threw a brilliant light upon the group, and
Words: 13:especially on the face of the gentleman in the white coat, and I
Words: 12:immediately recognized under the brim of the white hat, the features of
Words: 11:Horace Greeley, Esq., of the New York "Tribune." His general appearance
Words: 17:was as much out of the English style as that of the Turk whom I had seen
Words: 11:but a moment before--in his bag-like trousers, shuffling along in his
Words: 12:slippers. But oddness in dress, is one of the characteristics of the
Words: 2:Great Exhibition.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Among the many things in the Crystal Palace, there are some which
Words: 11:receive greater attention than others, around which may always be seen
Words: 13:large groups of the visitors. The first of these is the Koh-i-noor, the
Words: 12:"Mountain of Light." This is the largest and most valuable diamond in
Words: 13:the world, said to be worth £2,000,000 sterling. It is indeed a great
Words: 13:source of attraction to those who go to the Exhibition for the first
Words: 11:time, but it is doubtful whether it obtains such admiration afterwards.
Words: 14:We saw more than one spectator turn away with the idea that after all
Words: 16:it was only a piece of glass. After some jamming, I got a look at the
Words: 11:precious jewel, and although in a brass-grated cage, strong enough to
Words: 17:hold a lion, I found it to be no larger than the third of a hen's egg.
Words: 9:Two policemen remain by its side day and night.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:The finest thing in the Exhibition, is the "Veiled Vestal," a statue of
Words: 15:a woman carved in marble, with a veil over her face, and so neatly done,
Words: 15:that it looks as if it had been thrown over after it was finished. The
Words: 12:Exhibition presents many things which appeal to the eye and touch the
Words: 12:heart, and altogether, it is so decorated and furnished, as to excite
Words: 8:the dullest mind, and satisfy the most fastidious.
Words: 0:
Words: 9:England has contributed the most useful and substantial articles;
Words: 11:France, the most beautiful; while Russia, Turkey, and the West Indies,
Words: 13:seem to vie with each other in richness. China and Persia are not
Words: 11:behind. Austria has also contributed a rich and beautiful stock. Sweden,
Words: 12:Norway, Denmark, and the smaller states of Europe, have all tried to
Words: 11:outdo themselves in sending goods to the World's Fair. In Machinery,
Words: 12:England has no competitor. In Art, France is almost alone in the
Words: 4:Exhibition, setting aside England.
Words: 0:
Words: 10:In natural productions and provisions, America stands alone in her
Words: 13:glory. There lies her pile of canvassed hams; whether they were wood or
Words: 14:real, we could not tell. There are her barrels of salt, beef, and pork,
Words: 11:her beautiful white lard, her Indian-corn and corn-meal, her rice and
Words: 13:tobacco, her beef tongues, dried peas, and a few bags of cotton. The
Words: 11:contributors from the United States seemed to have forgotten that this
Words: 13:was an exhibition of Art, or they most certainly would not have sent
Words: 11:provisions. But the United States takes the lead in the contributions,
Words: 12:as no other country has sent in provisions. The finest thing contributed
Words: 14:by our countrymen, is a large piece of silk with an eagle painted upon
Words: 6:it, surrounded by stars and stripes.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:After remaining more than five hours in the great temple, I turned my
Words: 13:back upon the richly laden stalls and left the Crystal Palace. On my
Words: 13:return home I was more fortunate than in the morning, inasmuch as I
Words: 15:found a seat for my friend and myself in an omnibus. And even my ride
Words: 13:in the close omnibus was not without interest. For I had scarcely taken
Words: 13:my seat, when my friend, who was seated opposite me, with looks and
Words: 12:gesture informed me that we were in the presence of some distinguished
Words: 12:person. I eyed the countenances of the different persons, but in vain,
Words: 15:to see if I could find any one who by his appearance showed signs of
Words: 11:superiority over his fellow-passengers. I had given up the hope of
Words: 12:selecting the person of note when another look from my friend directed
Words: 14:my attention to a gentlemen seated in the corner of the omnibus. He was
Words: 12:a tall man with strongly marked features, hair dark and coarse. There
Words: 13:was a slight stoop of the shoulder--that bend which is almost always a
Words: 11:characteristic of studious men. But he wore upon his countenance a
Words: 12:forbidding and disdainful frown, that seemed to tell one that he thought
Words: 14:himself better than those about him. His dress did not indicate a man of
Words: 15:high rank; and had we been in America, I would have taken him for an
Words: 2:Ohio farmer.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:While I was scanning the features and general appearance of the
Words: 12:gentleman, the Omnibus stopped and put down three or four of the
Words: 13:passengers, which gave me an opportunity of getting a seat by the side
Words: 14:of my friend, who, in a low whisper, informed me that the gentleman whom
Words: 14:I had been eyeing so closely, was no less a person than Thomas Carlyle.
Words: 13:I had read his "Hero-worship," and "Past and Present," and had formed a
Words: 12:high opinion of his literary abilities. But his recent attack upon the
Words: 11:emancipated people of the West Indies, and his laborious article in
Words: 12:favour of the re-establishment of the lash and slavery, had created in
Words: 15:my mind a dislike for the man, and I almost regretted that we were in
Words: 14:the same Omnibus. In some things, Mr. Carlyle is right: but in many, he
Words: 12:is entirely wrong. As a writer, Mr. Carlyle is often monotonous and
Words: 12:extravagant. He does not exhibit a new view of nature, or raise
Words: 8:insignificant objects into importance, but generally takes commonplace
Words: 12:thoughts and events, and tries to express them in stronger and statelier
Words: 12:language than others. He holds no communion with his kind, but stands
Words: 14:alone without mate or fellow. He is like a solitary peak, all access to
Words: 13:which is cut off. He exists not by sympathy but by antipathy. Mr.
Words: 13:Carlyle seems chiefly to try how he shall display his own powers, and
Words: 11:astonish mankind, by starting new trains of speculation or by expressing
Words: 16:old ones so as not to be understood. He cares little what he says, so as
Words: 14:he can say it differently from others. To read his works, is one thing;
Words: 13:to understand them, is another. If any one thinks that I exaggerate, let
Words: 15:him sit for an hour over "Sartor Resartus," and if he does not rise from
Words: 14:its pages, place his three or four dictionaries on the shelf, and say I
Words: 14:am right, I promise never again to say a word against Thomas Carlyle. He
Words: 14:writes one page in favour of Reform, and ten against it. He would hang
Words: 14:all prisoners to get rid of them, yet the inmates of the prisons and
Words: 13:"work-houses are better off than the poor." His heart is with the poor;
Words: 14:yet the blacks of the West Indies should be taught, that if they will
Words: 13:not raise sugar and cotton by their own free will, "Quashy should have
Words: 12:the whip applied to him." He frowns upon the Reformatory speakers upon
Words: 14:the boards of Exeter Hall, yet he is the prince of reformers. He hates
Words: 12:heroes and assassins, yet Cromwell was an angel, and Charlotte Corday a
Words: 14:saint. He scorns everything, and seems to be tired of what he is by
Words: 15:nature, and tries to be what he is not. But you will ask, what has
Words: 14:Thomas Carlyle to do with a visit to the Crystal Palace? My only reply
Words: 14:is, "Nothing," and if my remarks upon him have taken up the space that
Words: 13:should have been devoted to the Exhibition, and what I have written not
Words: 14:prove too burdensome to read, my next will be "a week in the Crystal
Words: 1:Palace."
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XVIII.
Words: 0:
Words: 7:_The London Peace Congress--Meeting of Fugitive Slaves--Temperance
Words: 5:Demonstration--The Great Exhibition: last visit._
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 3:                    LONDON, _August 20_.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:The past six weeks have been of a stirring nature in this great
Words: 10:metropolis. It commenced with the Peace Congress, the proceedings of
Words: 12:which have long since reached you. And although that event has passed
Words: 17:off, it may not be out of place here to venture a remark or two upon its
Words: 1:deliberations.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:A meeting upon the subject of Peace, with the support of the monied and
Words: 11:influential men who rally around the Peace standard, could scarcely have
Words: 12:been held in Exeter Hall without creating some sensation. From all parts
Words: 11:of the world flocked delegates to this practical protest against war.
Words: 13:And among those who took part in the proceedings, were many men whose
Words: 11:names alone would, even on ordinary occasions, have filled the great
Words: 11:hall. The speakers were chosen from among the representatives of the
Words: 11:various countries, without regard to dialect or complexion; and the only
Words: 11:fault which seemed to be found with the Committee's arrangement was,
Words: 12:that in their desire to get foreigners and Londoners, they forgot the
Words: 12:country delegates, so that none of the large provincial towns were at
Words: 11:all represented in the Congress, so far as speaking was concerned.
Words: 10:Manchester, Leeds, Newcastle, and all the important towns in Scotland
Words: 13:and Ireland, were silenced in the great meeting. I need not say that
Words: 14:this was an oversight of the Committee, and one, too, that has done some
Words: 13:injury. Such men as the able Chairman of the late Anti-Corn Law League,
Words: 12:cannot be forgotten in such a meeting, without giving offence to those
Words: 11:who sent him, especially when the Committee brought forward, day after
Words: 10:day, the same speakers, chosen from amongst the metropolitan delegation.
Words: 12:However, the meeting was a glorious one, and will long be remembered
Words: 12:with delight as a step onward in the cause of Peace. Burritt's
Words: 11:Brotherhood Bazaar followed close upon the heels of the Peace Congress;
Words: 11:and this had scarcely closed, when that ever-memorable meeting of the
Words: 10:American Fugitive Slaves took place in the Hall of Commerce.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:The Temperance people made the next reformatory move. This meeting took
Words: 13:place in Exeter Hall, and was made up of delegates from the various
Words: 13:towns in the kingdom. They had come from the North, East, West, and
Words: 12:South. There was the quick-spoken son of the Emerald Isle, with his
Words: 12:pledge suspended from his neck; there, too, the Scot, speaking his broad
Words: 10:dialect; also the representatives from the provincial towns of England
Words: 10:and Wales, who seemed to speak anything but good English.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:The day after the meeting had closed in Exeter Hall, the country
Words: 10:societies, together with those of the metropolis, assembled in Hyde
Words: 13:Park, and then walked to the Crystal Palace. Their number while going to
Words: 11:the Exhibition, was variously estimated at from 15,000 to 20,000, and
Words: 11:was said to have been the largest gathering of Teetotalers ever
Words: 10:assembled in London. They consisted chiefly of the working classes,
Words: 8:their wives and children--clean, well-dressed and apparently happy:
Words: 11:their looks indicating in every way those orderly habits which, beyond
Words: 10:question, distinguish the devotees of that cause above the common
Words: 11:labourers of this country. On arriving at the Exhibition, they soon
Words: 10:distributed themselves among the departments, to revel in its various
Words: 11:wonders, eating their own lunch, and drinking from the Crystal Fountain.
Words: 0:
Words: 15:And now I am at the world's wonder, I will remain here until I finish
Words: 12:this sheet. I have spent fifteen days in the Exhibition, and have
Words: 11:conversed with those who have spent double that number amongst its
Words: 12:beauties, and the general opinion appears to be, that six months would
Words: 15:not be too long to remain within its walls to enable one to examine its
Words: 12:laden stalls. Many persons make the Crystal Palace their home, with the
Words: 13:exception of night. I have seen them come in the morning, visit the
Words: 11:dressing-room, then go to the refreshment room, and sit down to
Words: 14:breakfast as if they had been at their hotel. Dinner and tea would be
Words: 3:taken in turn.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:The Crystal Fountain is the great place of meeting in the Exhibition.
Words: 12:There you may see husbands looking for lost wives, wives for stolen
Words: 10:husbands, mothers for their lost children, and towns-people for their
Words: 12:country friends; and unless you have an appointment at a certain place
Words: 14:at an hour, you might as well prowl through the streets of London to
Words: 14:find a friend, as in the Great Exhibition. There is great beauty in the
Words: 11:"Glass House." Here, in the transept, with the glorious sunlight coming
Words: 11:through that wonderful glass roof, may the taste be cultivated and
Words: 9:improved, the mind edified, and the feelings chastened. Here,
Words: 13:surrounded by noble creations in marble and bronze, and in the midst of
Words: 12:an admiring throng, one may gaze at statuary which might fitly decorate
Words: 8:the house of the proudest prince in Christendom.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:He who takes his station in the gallery, at either end, and looks upon
Words: 11:that wondrous nave, or who surveys the matchless panorama around him
Words: 12:from the intersection of the nave and transept, may be said, without
Words: 12:presumption or exaggeration, to see all the kingdoms of this world and
Words: 13:the glory of them. He sees not only a greater collection of fine
Words: 13:articles, but also a greater as well as more various assemblage of the
Words: 10:human race, than ever before was gathered under one roof.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:One of the beauties of this great international gathering is, that it is
Words: 12:not confined to rank or grade. The million toilers from mine, and
Words: 12:factory, and workshop, and loom, and office, and field, share with their
Words: 11:more wealthy neighbours the feast of reason and imagination spread out
Words: 4:in the Crystal Palace.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:It is strange indeed to see so many nations assembled and represented
Words: 14:on one spot of British ground. In short, it is one great theatre, with
Words: 11:thousands of performers, each playing his own part. England is there,
Words: 10:with her mighty engines toiling and whirring, indefatigable in her
Words: 10:enterprises to shorten labour. India spreads her glitter and paint.
Words: 11:France, refined and fastidious, is there every day, giving the last
Words: 12:touch to her picturesque group; and the other countries, each in their
Words: 14:turn, doing what they can to show off. The distant hum of thousands of
Words: 10:good humoured people, with occasionally a national anthem from some
Words: 12:gigantic organ, together with the noise of the machinery, seems to send
Words: 8:life into every part of the Crystal Palace.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:When you get tired of walking, you can sit down and write your
Words: 14:impressions, and there is the "post" to receive your letter, or if it be
Words: 13:Friday or Saturday, you may, if you choose, rest yourself by hearing a
Words: 11:lecture from Professor Anstead; and then before leaving take your last
Words: 13:look, and see something that you have not before seen. Every thing which
Words: 13:is old in cities, new in colonial life, splendid in courts, useful in
Words: 10:industry, beautiful in nature, or ingenious in invention, is there
Words: 12:represented. In one place we have the Bible translated into one hundred
Words: 11:and fifty languages; in another, we have saints and archbishops painted
Words: 14:on glass; in another, old palaces and the altars of a John Knox, a
Words: 13:Baxter, or some other divines of olden time. In the old Temple of
Words: 13:Delphi, we read that every state of the civilized world had its separate
Words: 11:treasury, where Herodotus, born two thousand years before his time, saw
Words: 13:and observed all kinds of prodigies in gold and silver, brass and iron,
Words: 14:and even in linen. The nations all met there on one common ground, and
Words: 13:the peace of the earth was not a little promoted by their common
Words: 13:interest in the sanctity and splendour of that shrine. As long as the
Words: 13:Exhibition lasts, and its memory endures, we hope and trust that it may
Words: 13:shed the same influence. With this hasty scrap, I take leave of the
Words: 2:Great Exhibition.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XIX.
Words: 0:
Words: 8:_Oxford--Martyrs' Monument--Cost of the Burning of the Martyrs--The
Words: 6:Colleges--Dr. Pusey--Energy, the Secret of Success._
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 4:                    OXFORD, _September 10th, 1851_.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:I have just finished a short visit to the far famed city of Oxford,
Words: 13:which has not unaptly been styled the City of Palaces. Aside from this
Words: 13:being one of the principal seats of learning in the world, it is
Words: 10:distinguished alike for its religious and political changes in times
Words: 13:past. At one time it was the seat of Popery; at another, the
Words: 11:uncompromising enemy of Rome. Here the tyrant, Richard the Third, held
Words: 13:his court, and when James the First, and his son Charles the First,
Words: 13:found their capital too hot to hold them, they removed to their loyal
Words: 11:city of Oxford. The writings of the great Republicans were here
Words: 12:committed to the flames. At one time Popery sent Protestants to the
Words: 13:stake and faggot; at another, a Papist King found no favour with the
Words: 11:people. A noble monument now stands where Cranmer, Ridley, and Latimer,
Words: 11:proclaimed their sentiments and faith, and sealed them with their blood.
Words: 13:And now we read upon the Town Treasurer's book--for three loads of wood,
Words: 13:one load of faggots, one post, two chains and staples, to burn Ridley
Words: 14:and Latimer, £1 5s. 1d. Such is the information one gets by looking over
Words: 8:the records of books written three centuries ago.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:It was a beautiful day on which I arrived at Oxford, and instead of
Words: 14:remaining in my hotel, I sallied forth to take a survey of the beauties
Words: 13:of the city. I strolled into Christ Church Meadows, and there spent the
Words: 11:evening in viewing the numerous halls of learning which surround that
Words: 10:splendid promenade. And fine old buildings they are: centuries have
Words: 13:rolled over many of them, hallowing the old walls, and making them grey
Words: 13:with age. They have been for ages the chosen homes of piety and
Words: 11:philosophy. Heroes and scholars have gone forth from their studies here,
Words: 13:into the great field of the world, to seek their fortunes, and to
Words: 12:conquer and be conquered. As I surveyed the exterior of the different
Words: 13:Colleges, I could here and there see the reflection of the light from
Words: 13:the window of some student, who was busy at his studies, or throwing
Words: 14:away his time over some trashy novel, too many of which find their way
Words: 14:into the trunks or carpet bags of the young men on setting out for
Words: 14:College. As I looked upon the walls of these buildings, I thought as the
Words: 14:rough stone is taken from the quarry to the finisher, there to be made
Words: 13:into an ornament, so was the young mind brought here to be cultivated
Words: 12:and developed. Many a poor unobtrusive young man, with the appearance of
Words: 14:little or no ability, is here moulded into a hero, a scholar, a tyrant,
Words: 13:or a friend of humanity. I never look upon these monuments of education,
Words: 15:without a feeling of regret, that so few of our own race can find a
Words: 14:place within their walls. And this being the fact, I see more and more
Words: 12:the need of our people being encouraged to turn their attention more
Words: 10:seriously to self-education, and thus to take a respectable position
Words: 12:before the world, by virtue of their own cultivated minds and moral
Words: 1:standing.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:Education, though obtained by a little at a time, and that, too, over
Words: 13:the midnight lamp, will place its owner in a position to be respected
Words: 14:by all, even though he be black. I know that the obstacles which the
Words: 13:laws of the land, and of society, place between the coloured man and
Words: 13:education in the United States, are very great, yet if _one_ can break
Words: 13:through these barriers, more can; and if our people would only place the
Words: 10:right appreciation upon education, they would find these obstacles are
Words: 13:easier to be overcome than at first sight appears. A young man once
Words: 12:asked Carlyle, what was the secret of success. His reply was, "Energy;
Words: 14:whatever you undertake, do it with all your might." Had it not been for
Words: 14:the possession of energy, I might now have been working as a servant for
Words: 13:some brainless fellow who might be able to command my labour with his
Words: 13:money, or I might have been yet toiling in chains and slavery. But
Words: 15:thanks to energy, not only for my being to-day in a land of freedom, but
Words: 14:also for my dear girls being in one of the best seminaries in France,
Words: 13:instead of being in an American school, where the finger of scorn would
Words: 12:be pointed at them by those whose superiority rests entirely upon their
Words: 14:having a whiter skin. But I am straying too far from the purpose of
Words: 2:this letter.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:Oxford is indeed one of the finest located places in the kingdom, and
Words: 10:every inch of ground about it seems hallowed by interesting
Words: 10:associations. The University, founded by the good King Alfred, still
Words: 12:throws its shadow upon the side-walk; and the lapse of ten centuries
Words: 12:seems to have made but little impression upon it. Other seats of
Words: 11:learning may be entitled to our admiration, but Oxford claims our
Words: 12:veneration. Although the lateness of the night compelled me, yet I felt
Words: 11:an unwillingness to tear myself from the scene of such surpassing
Words: 14:interest. Few places in any country as noted as Oxford is, but what has
Words: 9:some distinguished person residing within its precincts. And knowing
Words: 14:that the City of Palaces was not an exception to this rule, I resolved
Words: 15:to see some of its lions. Here, of course, is the head quarters of the
Words: 12:Bishop of Oxford, a son of the late William Wilberforce, Africa's noble
Words: 12:champion. I should have been glad to have seen this distinguished pillar
Words: 14:of the Church, but I soon learned that the Bishop's residence was out of
Words: 13:town, and that he seldom visited the city except on business. I then
Words: 13:determined to see one who, although a lesser dignitary in the church, is
Words: 11:nevertheless, scarcely less known than the Bishop of Oxford. This was
Words: 13:the Rev. Dr. Pusey, a divine, whose name is known wherever the religion
Words: 12:of Jesus is known and taught, and the acknowledged head of the
Words: 12:Puseyites. On the second morning of my visit, I proceeded to Christ
Words: 11:Church Chapel, where the rev. gentleman officiates. Fortunately I had an
Words: 12:opportunity of seeing the Dr., and following close in his footsteps to
Words: 13:the church. His personal appearance is anything but that of one who is
Words: 14:the leader of a growing and powerful party in the church. He is rather
Words: 12:under the middle size, and is round shouldered, or rather stoops. His
Words: 13:profile is more striking than his front face, the nose being very large
Words: 14:and prominent. As a matter of course, I expected to see a large nose,
Words: 13:for all great men have them. He has a thoughtful, and somewhat sullen
Words: 13:brow, a firm and somewhat pensive mouth, a cheek pale, thin, and deeply
Words: 12:furrowed. A monk fresh from the cloisters of Tintern Abbey, in its
Words: 11:proudest days, could scarcely have made a more ascetic and solemn
Words: 12:appearance than did Dr. Pusey on this occasion. He is not apparently
Words: 13:above forty-five, or at most fifty years of age, and his whole aspect
Words: 12:renders him an admirable study for an artist. Dr. Pusey's style of
Words: 12:preaching is cold and tame, and one looking at him would scarcely
Words: 11:believe that such an apparently uninteresting man could cause such an
Words: 15:eruption in the Church as he has. I was glad to find that a coloured
Words: 8:young man was among the students at Oxford.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:A few months since, I paid a visit to our countryman, Alexander Crummel,
Words: 11:who is still pursuing his studies at Cambridge--a place, though much
Words: 14:inferior to Oxford as far as appearance is concerned, is yet said to be
Words: 13:greatly its superior as a place of learning. In an hour's walk through
Words: 13:the Strand, Regent, or Piccadilly Streets in London, one may meet half a
Words: 13:dozen coloured young men, who are inmates of the various Colleges in the
Words: 14:metropolis. These are all signs of progress in the cause of the sons of
Words: 13:Africa. Then let our people take courage, and with that courage let them
Words: 12:apply themselves to learning. A determination to excel is the sure road
Words: 16:to greatness, and that is as open to the black man as the white. It was
Words: 11:that which has accomplished the mightiest and noblest triumphs in the
Words: 12:intellectual and physical world. It was that which has made such rapid
Words: 10:strides towards civilization, and broken the chains of ignorance and
Words: 11:superstition, which have so long fettered the human intellect. It was
Words: 10:determination which raised so many worthy individuals from the humble
Words: 12:walks of society, and from poverty, and placed them in positions of
Words: 12:trust and renown. It is no slight barrier that can effectually oppose
Words: 9:the determination of the will--success must ultimately crown its
Words: 13:efforts. "The world shall hear of me," was the exclamation of one whose
Words: 11:name has become as familiar as household words. A Toussaint, once
Words: 12:laboured in the sugar field with his spelling-book in his pocket, amid
Words: 14:the combined efforts of a nation to keep him in ignorance. His name is
Words: 13:now recorded among the list of statesmen of the past. A Soulouque was
Words: 16:once a slave, and knew not how to read. He now sits upon the throne of
Words: 2:an Empire.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:In our own country, there are men who once held the plough, and that
Words: 11:too without any compensation, who are now presiding at the editor's
Words: 12:table. It was determination that brought out the genius of a Franklin,
Words: 12:and a Fulton, and that has distinguished many of the American Statesmen,
Words: 13:who but for their energy and determination would never have had a name
Words: 7:beyond the precincts of their own homes.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:It is not always those who have the best advantages, or the greatest
Words: 11:talents, that eventually succeed in their undertakings; but it is those
Words: 11:who strive with untiring diligence to remove all obstacles to success,
Words: 11:and who, with unconquerable resolution, labour on until the rich reward
Words: 13:of perseverance is within their grasp. Then again let me say to our
Words: 12:young men--Take courage; "There is a good time coming." The darkness of
Words: 10:the night appears greatest just before the dawn of day.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XX.
Words: 0:
Words: 4:_Fugitive Slaves in England._
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 14:The love of freedom is one of those natural impulses of the human breast
Words: 11:which cannot be extinguished. Even the brute animals of the creation
Words: 11:feel and show sorrow and affection when deprived of their liberty.
Words: 11:Therefore is a distinguished writer justified in saying, "Man is free,
Words: 13:even were he born in chains." The Americans boast, and justly, too, that
Words: 10:Washington was the hero and model patriot of the American
Words: 11:Revolution--the man whose fame, unequalled in his own day and country,
Words: 14:will descend to the end of time, the pride and honour of humanity. The
Words: 12:American speaks with pride of the battles of Lexington and Bunker Hill;
Words: 13:and when standing in Faneuil Hall, he points to the portraits of Otis,
Words: 11:Adams, Hancock, Quincy, Warren, and Franklin, and tells you that their
Words: 12:names will go down to posterity among the world's most devoted and
Words: 5:patriotic friends of human liberty.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:It was on the first of August, 1851, that a number of men, fugitives
Words: 13:from that boasted land of freedom, assembled at the Hall of Commerce in
Words: 13:the City of London, for the purpose of laying their wrongs before the
Words: 14:British nation, and at the same time, to give thanks to the God of
Words: 13:Freedom for the liberation of their West India brethren, on the first of
Words: 12:August, 1834. Little notice had been given of the intended meeting, yet
Words: 16:it seemed to be known in all parts of the city. At the hour of half-past
Words: 13:seven, for which the meeting had been called, the spacious hall was well
Words: 12:filled, and the fugitives, followed by some of the most noted English
Words: 10:Abolitionists, entered the hall, amid the most deafening applause, and
Words: 13:took their seats on the platform. The appearance of the great hall at
Words: 11:this juncture was most splendid. Besides the committee of fugitives, on
Words: 14:the platform there were a number of the oldest and most devoted of the
Words: 13:Slave's friends. On the left of the chair sat Geo. Thompson, Esq., M.P.;
Words: 15:near him was the Rev. Jabez Burns, D.D.; and by his side the Rev. John
Words: 12:Stevenson, M.A., Wm. Farmer, Esq., R. Smith, Esq.; while on the other
Words: 11:side were the Rev. Edward Mathews, John Cunliff, Esq., Andrew Paton,
Words: 12:Esq., J.P. Edwards, Esq., and a number of coloured gentlemen from the
Words: 12:West Indies. The body of the hall was not without its distinguished
Words: 11:guests. The Chapmans and Westons of Boston, U.S., were there. The
Words: 14:Estlins and Tribes had come all the way from Bristol to attend the great
Words: 13:meeting. The Patons of Glasgow had delayed their departure, so as to be
Words: 13:present. The Massies had come in from Upper Clapton. Not far from the
Words: 11:platform sat Sir Francis Knowles, Bart., still farther back was Samuel
Words: 14:Bowly, Esq., while near the door were to be seen the greatest critic of
Words: 12:the age, and England's best living poet. Macaulay had laid aside the
Words: 13:pen, entered the hall, and was standing near the central door, while not
Words: 10:far from the historian stood the newly-appointed Poet Laureat. The
Words: 14:author of "In Memoriam" had been swept in by the crowd, and was standing
Words: 13:with his arms folded, and beholding for the first time (and probably the
Words: 14:last) so large a number of coloured men in one room. In different parts
Words: 14:of the hall were men and women from nearly all parts of the kingdom,
Words: 13:besides a large number who, drawn to London by the Exhibition, had come
Words: 12:in to see and hear these oppressed people plead their own cause.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:The writer of this sketch was chosen Chairman of the meeting, and
Words: 10:commenced its proceedings by delivering the following address, which we
Words: 8:cut from the columns of the _Morning Advertiser_:--
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 10:"The Chairman, in opening the proceedings, remarked that, although the
Words: 10:metropolis had of late been inundated with meetings of various
Words: 11:character, having reference to almost every variety of subject, yet that
Words: 12:the subject they were called upon that evening to discuss differed from
Words: 13:them all. Many of those by whom he was surrounded, like himself, had
Words: 11:been victims to the inhuman institution of Slavery, and were in
Words: 11:consequence exiled from the land of their birth. They were fugitives
Words: 13:from their native land, but not fugitives from justice, and they had not
Words: 10:fled from a monarchical, but from a so-called republican government.
Words: 13:They came from amongst a people who declared, as part of their creed,
Words: 15:that all men were born free, but who, while they did so, made slaves of
Words: 13:every sixth man, woman, and child in the country (hear, hear). He must
Words: 13:not, however, forget that one of the purposes for which they were met
Words: 11:that night was to commemorate the emancipation of their brothers and
Words: 14:sisters in the isles of the sea. That act of the British Parliament, and
Words: 13:he might add in this case with peculiar emphasis, of the British nation,
Words: 15:passed on the 12th day of August, 1833, to take effect on the first day
Words: 11:of August, 1834, and which enfranchised 800,000 West Indian slaves, was
Words: 11:an event sublime in its nature, comprehensive and mighty in its
Words: 8:immediate influences and remote consequences, precious beyond expression
Words: 12:to the cause of freedom, and encouraging beyond the measure of any
Words: 13:government on earth to the hearts of all enlightened and just men. This
Words: 12:act was the commencement of a long course of philanthropic and Christian
Words: 14:efforts on the part of some of the best men that the world ever
Words: 13:produced. It was not his intention to go into a discussion or a
Words: 13:calculation of the rise and fall of property, or whether sugar was worth
Words: 13:more or less by the act of emancipation. But the abolition of Slavery
Words: 14:in the West Indies, was a blow struck in the right direction, at that
Words: 12:most inhuman of all traffics, the slave trade--a trade which would never
Words: 13:cease so long as slavery existed, for where there was a market there
Words: 12:would be merchandise; where there was demand there would be a supply;
Words: 12:where there were carcases there would be vultures; and they might as
Words: 15:well attempt to turn the water, and make it run up the Niagara river, as
Words: 14:to change this law. It was often said by the Americans that England was
Words: 10:responsible for the existence of slavery there, because it was
Words: 11:introduced into that country while the colonies were under the British
Words: 14:Crown. If that were the case, they must come to the conclusion that, as
Words: 12:England abolished Slavery in the West Indies, she would have done the
Words: 16:same for the American States if she had had the power to do it; and if
Words: 13:that was so, they might safely say that the separation of the United
Words: 13:States from the mother country was (to say the least) a great misfortune
Words: 13:to one-sixth of the population of that land. England had set a noble
Words: 12:example to America, and he would to heaven his countrymen would follow
Words: 11:the example. The Americans boasted of their superior knowledge, but they
Words: 14:needed not to boast of their superior guilt, for that was set upon a
Words: 14:hill top, and that too, so high, that it required not the lantern of
Words: 12:Diogenes to find it out. Every breeze from the western world brought
Words: 14:upon its wings the groans and cries of the victims of this guilt. Nearly
Words: 12:all countries had fixed the seal of disapprobation on slavery, and when,
Words: 14:at some future age, this stain on the page of history shall be pointed
Words: 10:at, posterity will blush at the discrepancy between American profession
Words: 13:and American practice. What was to be thought of a people boasting of
Words: 9:their liberty, their humanity, their Christianity, their love of
Words: 13:justice, and at the same time keeping in slavery nearly four millions of
Words: 13:God's children, and shutting out from them the light of the Gospel, by
Words: 12:denying the Bible to the slave! (Hear, hear.) No education, no marriage,
Words: 14:everything done to keep the mind of the slave in darkness. There was a
Words: 13:wish on the part of the people of the northern States to shield
Words: 12:themselves from the charge of slave-holding, but as they shared in the
Words: 13:guilt, he was not satisfied with letting them off without their share in
Words: 13:the odium. And now a word about the Fugitive Slave Bill. That measure
Words: 12:was in every respect an unconstitutional measure. It set aside the right
Words: 13:formerly enjoyed by the fugitive of trial by jury--it afforded to him no
Words: 12:protection, no opportunity of proving his right to be free, and it
Words: 11:placed every free coloured person at the mercy of any unprincipled
Words: 13:individual who might wish to lay claim to him. (Hear.) That law is
Words: 11:opposed to the principles of Christianity--foreign alike to the laws of
Words: 13:God and man, it had converted the whole population of the free States
Words: 13:into a band of slave-catchers, and every rood of territory is but so
Words: 12:much hunting ground, over which they might chase the fugitive. But while
Words: 13:they were speaking of slavery in the United States, they must not omit
Words: 13:to mention that there was a strong feeling in that land, not only
Words: 11:against the Fugitive Slave Law, but also against the existence of
Words: 15:slavery in any form. There was a band of fearless men and women in the
Words: 13:city of Boston, whose labours for the slave had resulted in good beyond
Words: 12:calculation. This noble and heroic class had created an agitation in the
Words: 11:whole country, until their principles have taken root in almost every
Words: 12:association in the land, and which, with God's blessing, will, in due
Words: 13:time, cause the Americans to put into practice what they have so long
Words: 12:professed. (Hear, hear.) He wished it to be continually held up before
Words: 12:the country, that the northern States are as deeply implicated in the
Words: 13:guilt of slavery as the South. The north had a population of 13,553,328
Words: 12:freemen; the south had a population of only 6,393,756 freemen; the north
Words: 14:has 152 representatives in the house, the south only 81; and it would be
Words: 13:seen by this, that the balance of power was with the free States.
Words: 13:Looking, therefore, at the question in all its aspects, he was sure that
Words: 14:there was no one in this country but who would find out, that the
Words: 13:slavery of the United States of America was a system the most abandoned
Words: 6:and the most tyrannical. (Hear, hear.)"
Words: 0:
Words: 12:At the close of this address, the Rev. Edward Matthews, last from
Words: 12:Bristol, but who had recently returned from the United States, where he
Words: 13:had been maltreated on account of his fidelity to the cause of freedom,
Words: 12:was introduced, and made a most interesting speech. The next speaker was
Words: 12:George Thompson, Esq., M.P.; and we need only say that his eloquence,
Words: 11:which has seldom or ever been equalled, and never surpassed, exceeded,
Words: 12:on this occasion, the most sanguine expectations of his friends. All who
Words: 10:sat under the thundering anathemas which he hurled against slavery,
Words: 10:seemed instructed, delighted, and animated. No one could scarcely have
Words: 10:remained unmoved by the pensive sympathies that pervaded the entire
Words: 13:assembly. There were many in the meeting who had never seen a fugitive
Words: 14:slave before, and when any of the speakers would refer to those on the
Words: 12:platform, the whole audience seemed moved to tears. No meeting of the
Words: 12:kind held in London for years created a greater sensation than this
Words: 14:gathering of refugees from the "Land of the free, and the home of the
Words: 12:brave." The following appeal, which I had written for the occasion, was
Words: 12:unanimously adopted at the close of the meeting, and thus ended the
Words: 5:great Anti-Slavery demonstration of 1851.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 11:AN APPEAL TO THE PEOPLE OF GREAT BRITAIN AND THE WORLD.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:We consider it just, both to the people of the United States and to
Words: 11:ourselves, in making an appeal to the inhabitants of other countries,
Words: 14:against the laws which have exiled us from our native land, to state the
Words: 14:ground upon which we make our appeal, and the causes which impel us to
Words: 14:do so. There are in the United States of America, at the present time,
Words: 14:between three and four millions of persons, who are held in a state of
Words: 14:slavery which has no parallel in any other part of the world; and whose
Words: 11:numbers have, within the last fifty years, increased to a fearful
Words: 13:extent. These people are not only deprived of the rights to which the
Words: 12:laws of Nature and Nature's God entitle them, but every avenue to
Words: 12:knowledge is closed against them. The laws do not recognise the family
Words: 13:relation of a slave, and extend to him protection in the enjoyment of
Words: 8:domestic endearments. Brothers and sisters, parents and children,
Words: 12:husbands and wives, are torn asunder, and permitted to see each other
Words: 14:no more. The shrieks and agonies of the slave are heard in the markets
Words: 12:at the seat of government, and within hearing of the American Congress,
Words: 14:as well as on the cotton, sugar and rice plantations of the far South.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:The history of the negroes in America is but a history of repeated
Words: 13:injuries and acts of oppression committed upon them by the whites. It is
Words: 14:not for ourselves that we make this appeal, but for those whom we have
Words: 2:left behind.
Words: 0:
Words: 10:In their Declaration of Independence, the Americans declare that "all
Words: 12:men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with
Words: 11:certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the
Words: 11:pursuit of happiness." Yet one-sixth of the inhabitants of the great
Words: 13:Republic are slaves. Thus they give the lie to their own professions. No
Words: 12:one forfeits his or her character or standing in society by being
Words: 13:engaged in holding, buying or selling a slave; the details of which, in
Words: 7:all their horror, can scarcely be told.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Although the holding of slaves is confined to fifteen of the thirty-one
Words: 11:States, yet we hold that the non-slave-holding States are equally guilty
Words: 14:with the slave-holding. If any proof is needed on this point, it will be
Words: 13:found in the passage of the inhuman Fugitive Slave Law, by Congress; a
Words: 13:law which could never have been enacted without the votes of a portion
Words: 12:of the representatives from the free States, and which is now being
Words: 13:enforced, in many of the States, with the utmost alacrity. It was the
Words: 14:passing of this law that exiled us from our native land, and it has
Words: 12:driven thousands of our brothers and sisters from the free States, and
Words: 12:compelled them to seek a refuge in the British possessions in North
Words: 11:America. The Fugitive Slave Law has converted the entire country, North
Words: 11:and South, into one vast hunting-ground. We would respectfully ask you
Words: 12:to expostulate with the Americans, and let them know that you regard
Words: 13:their treatment of the coloured people of that country as a violation of
Words: 11:every principle of human brotherhood, of natural right, of justice, of
Words: 11:humanity, of Christianity, of love to God and love to man.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:It is needless that we should remind you that the religious sects of
Words: 11:America, with but few exceptions, are connected with the sin of
Words: 13:slavery--the churches North as well as South. We would have you tell the
Words: 12:professed Christians of that land, that if they would be respected by
Words: 12:you, they must separate themselves from the unholy alliance with men who
Words: 12:are daily committing deeds which, if done in England, would cause the
Words: 13:perpetrator to be sent to a felon's doom; that they must refuse the
Words: 8:right hand of Christian fellowship, whether individually or
Words: 12:collectively, to those implicated, in any way, in the guilt of slavery.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:We do not ask for a forcible interference on your part, but only that
Words: 13:you will use all lawful and peaceful means to restore to this much
Words: 10:injured race their God-given rights. The moral and religious sentiment
Words: 11:of mankind must be arrayed against slave-holding, to make it infamous,
Words: 16:ere we can hope to see it abolished. We would ask you to set them the
Words: 10:example, by excluding from your pulpits, and from religious communion,
Words: 11:the slave-holding and pro-slavery ministers who may happen to visit this
Words: 13:country. We would even go further, and ask you to shut your doors
Words: 12:against either ministers or laymen, who are at all guilty of upholding
Words: 13:and sustaining this monster sin. By the cries of the slave, which come
Words: 16:from the fields and swamps of the far South, we ask you to do this! By
Words: 13:that spirit of liberty and equality of which you all admire, we would
Words: 14:ask you to do this. And by that still nobler, higher, and holier spirit
Words: 15:of our beloved Saviour, we would ask you to stamp upon the head of the
Words: 13:slaveholder, with a brand deeper than that which marks the victim of his
Words: 10:wrongs, the infamy of theft, adultery, man-stealing, piracy, and murder,
Words: 13:and, by the force of public opinion, compel him to "unloose the heavy
Words: 7:burden, and let the oppressed go free."
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XXI.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:_A Chapter on American Slavery._
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 13:The word Englishman is but another name for an American, and the word
Words: 11:American is but another name for an Englishman--England is the father,
Words: 12:America the son. They have a common origin and identity of language;
Words: 12:they hold the same religious and political opinions; they study the same
Words: 10:histories, and have the same literature. Steam and mechanical ingenuity
Words: 12:have brought the two countries within nine days sailing of each other.
Words: 11:The Englishman on landing at New-York finds his new neighbours speaking
Words: 13:the same language which he last heard on leaving Liverpool, and he sees
Words: 14:the American in the same dress that he had been accustomed to look upon
Words: 13:at home, and soon forgets that he is three thousand miles from his
Words: 11:native land, and in another country. The American on landing at
Words: 11:Liverpool, and taking a walk through the great commercial city, finding
Words: 10:no difficulty in understanding the people, supposes himself still in
Words: 14:New-York; and if there seems any doubt in his own mind, growing out of
Words: 14:the fact that the people have a more healthy look, seem more polite, and
Words: 12:that the buildings have a more substantial appearance than those he had
Words: 13:formerly looked upon, he has only to imagine, as did Rip Van Winkle,
Words: 8:that he has been asleep these hundred years.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:If the Englishman who has seen a Thompson silenced in Boston, or a
Words: 11:Macready mobbed in New-York, upon the ground that they were foreigners,
Words: 13:should sit in Exeter Hall and hear an American orator until he was
Words: 12:hoarse, and wonder why the American is better treated in England than
Words: 13:the Englishman in America, he has only to attribute it to John Bull's
Words: 12:superior knowledge of good manners, and his being a more law-abiding man
Words: 12:than brother Jonathan. England and America has each its reforms and its
Words: 13:reformers, and they have more or less sympathy with each other. It has
Words: 12:been said that one generation commences a reform in England, and that
Words: 13:another generation finishes it. I would that so much could be said with
Words: 12:regard to the great object of reform in America--the system of slavery!
Words: 0:
Words: 15:No evil was ever more deeply rooted in a country than is slavery in the
Words: 12:United States. Spread over the largest and most fertile States in the
Words: 12:Union, with decidedly the best climate, and interwoven, as it is, with
Words: 9:the religious, political, commercial, and social institutions of the
Words: 12:country, it is scarcely possible to estimate its influence. This is the
Words: 11:evil which claims the attention of American Reformers, over and above
Words: 13:every other evil in the land, and thanks to a kind providence, the
Words: 12:American slave is not without his advocates. The greatest enemy to the
Words: 11:Anti-Slavery Society, and the most inveterate opposer of the men whose
Words: 14:names stand at the head of the list as officers and agents of that
Words: 11:association, will, we think, assign to William Lloyd Garrison, the first
Words: 12:place in the ranks of the American Abolitionists. The first to proclaim
Words: 12:the doctrine of immediate emancipation to the slaves of America, and on
Words: 12:that account an object of hatred to the slave-holding interest of the
Words: 13:country, and living for years with his life in danger, he is justly
Words: 13:regarded by all, as the leader of the Anti-Slavery movement in the New
Words: 12:World. Mr. Garrison is at the present time but little more than
Words: 14:forty-five years of age, and of the middle size. He has a high and
Words: 13:prominent forehead, well developed, with no hair on the top of the head,
Words: 13:having lost it in early life; with a piercing eye, a pleasant, yet
Words: 10:anxious countenance, and of a most loveable disposition; tender, and
Words: 11:blameless in his family affections, devoted to his friends; simple and
Words: 8:studious, upright, guileless, distinguished, and worthy, like the
Words: 10:distinguished men of antiquity, to be immortalized by another Plutarch.
Words: 13:How many services never to be forgotten, has he not rendered to the
Words: 14:cause of the slave, and the welfare of mankind! As a speaker, he is
Words: 14:forcible, clear, and logical, yet he will not rank with the many who are
Words: 15:less known. As a writer, he is regarded as one of the finest in the
Words: 10:United States, and certainly the most prominent in the Anti-Slavery
Words: 12:cause. Had Mr. Garrison wished to serve himself, he might, with his
Words: 14:great talents, long since, have been at the head of either of the great
Words: 11:political parties. Few men can withstand the allurements of office, and
Words: 12:the prize-money that accompanies them. Many of those who were with him
Words: 12:fifteen years ago, have been swept down with the current of popular
Words: 15:favour, either in Church or State. He has seen a Cox on the one hand,
Words: 13:and a Stanton on the other, swept away like so much floating wood
Words: 12:before the tide. When the sturdiest characters gave way, when the finest
Words: 11:geniuses passed one after another under the yoke of slavery, Garrison
Words: 13:stood firm to his convictions, like a rock that stands stirless amid the
Words: 12:conflicting agitation of the waves. He is not only the friend and
Words: 14:advocate of freedom with his pen and his tongue, but to the oppressed of
Words: 15:every clime he opens his purse, his house, and his heart: yet he is not
Words: 14:a man of money. The fugitive slave, fresh from the whips and chains, who
Words: 12:is turned off by the politician, and experiences the cold shoulder of
Words: 14:the divine, finds a bed and a breakfast under the hospitable roof of Mr.
Words: 2:Lloyd Garrison.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:The party of which he is the acknowledged head, is one of no
Words: 11:inconsiderable influence in the United States. No man has more bitter
Words: 12:enemies or stauncher friends than he. There are those among his friends
Words: 13:who would stake their all upon his veracity and integrity; and we are
Words: 11:sure that the coloured people throughout America, bond and free, in
Words: 13:whose cause he has so long laboured, will, with one accord, assign the
Words: 10:highest niche in their affection to the champion of universal
Words: 12:emancipation. Every cause has its writers and its orators. We have drawn
Words: 12:a hasty and imperfect sketch of the greatest writer in the Anti-Slavery
Words: 11:field: we shall now call attention to the most distinguished public
Words: 12:speaker. The name of Wendell Phillips is but another name for eloquence.
Words: 12:Born in the highest possible position in America, Mr. Phillips has all
Words: 13:the advantages that birth can give to one in that country. Educated at
Words: 11:the first University, graduating with all the honours which the College
Words: 14:could bestow on him, and studying the law and becoming a member of the
Words: 13:bar, he has all the accomplishments that these advantages can give to a
Words: 14:man of a great mind. Nature has treated him as a favourite. His stature
Words: 10:is not tall, but handsome; his expressive countenance paints and
Words: 10:reflects every emotion of his soul. His gestures are wonderfully
Words: 13:graceful, like his delivery. There is a fascination in the soft gaze of
Words: 13:his eyes, which none can but admire. Being a great reader, and endowed
Words: 12:by nature with a good memory, he supplies himself with the most
Words: 10:complicated dates and historical events. Nothing can equal the variety
Words: 14:of his matter. I have heard him more than twenty different times on the
Words: 13:same subject, but never heard the same speech. He is personal, but there
Words: 11:is nothing offensive in his personalities. He extracts from a subject
Words: 14:all that it contains, and does it as none but Wendell Phillips can. His
Words: 11:voice is beautifully musical, and it is calculated to attract wherever
Words: 15:it is heard. He is a man of calm intrepidity, of a patriotic and warm
Words: 11:heart, with manners the most affable, temper the most gentle, a
Words: 11:rectitude of principle entirely natural, a freedom from ambition, and a
Words: 12:modesty quite singular. As Napoleon kept the Old Guard in reserve, to
Words: 13:turn the tide in battle, so do the Abolitionists keep Mr. Phillips in
Words: 11:reserve when opposition is expected in their great gatherings. We have
Words: 11:seen the meetings turned into a bedlam, by the mobocratic slave-holding
Words: 12:spirit, and when the speakers had one after another left the platform
Words: 12:without a hearing, and the chairman had lost all control of the
Words: 11:assembly, the appearance of this gentleman upon the platform would turn
Words: 14:the tide of events. He would not beg for a hearing, but on the
Words: 13:contrary, he would lash them as no preceding speaker had done. If, by
Words: 12:their groans and yells, they stifled his voice, he would stand unmoved
Words: 15:with his arms folded, and by the very eloquence of his looks put them to
Words: 11:silence. His speeches against the Fugitive Slave Law, and his withering
Words: 11:rebukes of Daniel Webster and other northern men who supported that
Words: 12:measure, are of the most splendid character, and will compare in point
Words: 11:of composition with anything ever uttered by Chatham or Sheridan in
Words: 11:their palmiest days. As a public speaker, Mr. Phillips is, without
Words: 12:doubt, the first in the United States. Considering his great talent, his
Words: 14:high birth, and the prospects which lay before him, and the fact that he
Words: 12:threw everything aside to plead the slave's cause, we must be convinced
Words: 13:that no man has sacrificed more upon the altar of humanity than Wendell
Words: 1:Phillips.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:Within the past ten years, a great impetus has been given to the
Words: 11:anti-slavery movement in America by coloured men who have escaped from
Words: 13:slavery. Coming as they did from the very house of bondage, and being
Words: 12:able to speak from sad experience, they could speak as none others
Words: 1:could.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:The gentleman to whom we shall now call attention is one of this class,
Words: 13:and doubtless the first of his race in America. The name of Frederick
Words: 12:Douglass is well known throughout this country as well as America. Born
Words: 15:and brought up as a slave, he was deprived of a mother's care and of
Words: 12:early education. Escaping when he was little more than twenty years of
Words: 13:age, he was thrown upon his own resources in the free states, where
Words: 12:prejudice against colour is but another name for slavery. But during all
Words: 12:this time he was educating himself as well as circumstances would admit.
Words: 12:Mr. Douglass commenced his career as a public speaker some ten years
Words: 10:since, as an agent of the American or Massachusetts Anti-Slavery
Words: 11:Societies. He is tall and well made. His vast and well-developed
Words: 12:forehead announces the power of his intellect. His voice is full and
Words: 11:sonorous. His attitude is dignified, and his gesticulation is full of
Words: 12:noble simplicity. He is a man of lofty reason, natural, and without
Words: 11:pretension, always master of himself, brilliant in the art of exposing
Words: 13:and of abstracting. Few persons can handle a subject with which they are
Words: 12:familiar better than Mr. Douglass. There is a kind of eloquence issuing
Words: 14:from the depth of the soul, as from a spring, rolling along its copious
Words: 10:floods, sweeping all before it, overwhelming by its very force,
Words: 9:carrying, upsetting, engulphing its adversaries, and more dazzling and
Words: 14:more thundering than the bolt which leaps from crag to crag. This is the
Words: 13:eloquence of Frederick Douglass. He is one of the greatest mimics of the
Words: 15:age. No man can put on a sweeter smile or a more sarcastic frown than
Words: 15:he: you cannot put him off his guard. He is always in good humour. Mr.
Words: 12:Douglass possesses great dramatic powers; and had he taken up the sock
Words: 14:and buskin, instead of becoming a lecturer, he would have made as fine a
Words: 6:Coriolanus as ever trod the stage.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:However, Mr. Douglass was not the first coloured man that became a
Words: 12:lecturer, and thereby did service to the cause of his countrymen. The
Words: 11:earliest and most effective speaker from among the coloured race in
Words: 10:America, was Charles Lennox Remond. In point of eloquence, this
Words: 10:gentleman is not inferior to either Wendell Phillips or Frederick
Words: 13:Douglass. Mr. Remond is of small stature, and neat figure, with a head
Words: 12:well developed, but a remarkably thin face. As an elocutionist, he is,
Words: 12:without doubt, the first on the anti-slavery platform. He has a good
Words: 10:voice, a pleasing countenance, a prompt intelligence, and when speaking,
Words: 13:is calculated to captivate and carry away an audience by the very force
Words: 14:of his eloquence. Born in the freest state of the Union, and of most
Words: 12:respectable parents, he prides himself not a little on his birth and
Words: 12:descent. One can scarcely find fault with this, for, in the United
Words: 11:States, the coloured man is deprived of the advantages which parentage
Words: 14:gives to the white man. Mr. Remond is a descendant of one of those
Words: 14:coloured men who stood side by side with white men on the plains of
Words: 11:Concord and Lexington, in the battles that achieved the independence of
Words: 13:the colonies from the mother country, in the war of the Revolution. Mr.
Words: 12:Remond has felt deeply, (probably more so than any other coloured man),
Words: 13:the odious prejudice against colour. On this point he is sensitive to a
Words: 16:fault. If any one will sit for an hour and hear a lecture from him on
Words: 13:this subject, if he is not converted, he will at least become convinced,
Words: 10:that the boiling cauldron of anti-slavery discussion has never thrown
Words: 11:upon its surface a more fiery spirit than Charles Lennox Remond.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:There are some men who neither speak nor write, but whose lives place
Words: 14:them in the foremost ranks in the cause which they espouse. One of these
Words: 13:is Francis Jackson. He was one of the earliest to give countenance and
Words: 13:support to the anti-slavery movement. In the year 1835, when a mob of
Words: 12:more than 5000 merchants and others, in Boston, broke up an anti-slavery
Words: 11:meeting of females, at which William Lloyd Garrison and George Thompson
Words: 14:were to deliver addresses, and when the Society had no room in which to
Words: 13:hold its meetings (having been driven from their own room by the mob),
Words: 10:Francis Jackson, with a moral courage scarcely ever equalled, came
Words: 12:forward and offered his private dwelling to the ladies, to hold their
Words: 11:meeting in. The following interesting passage occurs in a letter from
Words: 14:him to the Secretary of the Society a short time after, on receiving a
Words: 6:vote of thanks from its members:--
Words: 0:
Words: 15:"If a large majority of this community choose to turn a deaf ear to the
Words: 11:wrongs which are inflicted upon their countrymen in other portions of
Words: 13:the land--if they are content to turn away from the sight of oppression,
Words: 10:and 'pass by on the other side'--so it must be.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:"But when they undertake in any way to impair or annul my right to
Words: 11:speak, write, and publish upon any subject, and more especially upon
Words: 12:enormities, which are the common concern of every lover of his country
Words: 16:and his kind--so it must not be--so it shall not be, if I for one can
Words: 14:prevent it. Upon this great right let us hold on at all hazards. And
Words: 12:should we, in its exercise, be driven from public halls to private
Words: 11:dwellings, one house at least shall be consecrated to its preservation.
Words: 14:And if, in defence of this sacred privilege, which man did not give me,
Words: 16:and shall not (if I can help it) take from me, this roof and these walls
Words: 14:shall be levelled to the earth, let them fall if they must; they cannot
Words: 14:crumble in a better cause. They will appear of very little value to me
Words: 9:after their owner shall have been whipt into silence."
Words: 0:
Words: 12:There are among the contributors to the Anti-Slavery cause, a few who
Words: 13:give with a liberality which has never been surpassed by the donors to
Words: 10:any benevolent association in the world, according to their means--the
Words: 6:chief of these is Francis Jackson.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:In the month of May, 1844, while one evening strolling up Broadway, New
Words: 14:York, I saw a crowd making its way into the Minerva Rooms, and, having
Words: 12:no pressing engagement, I followed, and was soon in a splendid hall,
Words: 11:where some twelve or fifteen hundred persons were seated, and listening
Words: 12:to rather a strange-looking man. The speaker was tall and slim, with
Words: 13:long arms, long legs, and a profusion of auburn or reddish hair hanging
Words: 13:in ringlets down his shoulders; while a huge beard of the same colour
Words: 14:fell upon his breast. His person was not at all improved by his dress.
Words: 13:The legs of his trousers were shorter than those worn by smaller men:
Words: 13:the sleeves of his coat were small and short, the shirt collar turned
Words: 13:down in Byronic style, beard and hair hid his countenance, so that no
Words: 11:redeeming feature could be found there; yet there was one redeeming
Words: 11:quality about the man--that was the stream of fervid eloquence which
Words: 14:escaped from his lips. I inquired his name, and was informed that it was
Words: 12:Charles C. Burleigh. Nature has been profuse in showering her gifts upon
Words: 13:Mr. Burleigh, but all has been bestowed upon his head and heart. There
Words: 13:is a kind of eloquence which weaves its thread around the hearer, and
Words: 11:gradually draws him into its web, fascinating him with its gaze,
Words: 15:entangling him as the spider does the fly, until he is fast: such is the
Words: 12:eloquence of C.C. Burleigh. As a debater he is unquestionably the first
Words: 13:on the Anti-slavery platform. If he did not speak so fast, he would
Words: 12:equal Wendell Phillips; if he did not reason his subject out of
Words: 12:existence, he would surpass him. However, one would have to travel over
Words: 15:many miles, and look in the faces of many men, before he would find one
Words: 13:who has made more personal sacrifices, or done more to bring about the
Words: 10:Emancipation of the American Slaves, than Mr. Charles C. Burleigh.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:Whoever the future historian of the Anti-Slavery movement may be, he
Words: 13:will not be able to compile a correct history of this great struggle,
Words: 12:without consulting the writings of Edmund Quincy, a member of one of
Words: 10:the wealthiest, patriotic, and aristocratic families in New England: the
Words: 14:prestige of his name is a passport to all that the heart could wish.
Words: 12:Descended from a family, whose name is connected with all that was
Words: 13:glorious in the great American Revolution, the son of one who has again
Words: 11:and again represented his native State, in the National Congress, he
Words: 10:too, like Wendell Phillips, threw away the pearl of political
Words: 11:preferment, and devoted his distinguished talents to the cause of the
Words: 13:Slave. Mr. Quincy is better known in this country as having filled the
Words: 11:editorial chair of _The Liberator_, during the several visits of its
Words: 15:Editor to Great Britain. As a speaker, he does not rank as high as some
Words: 14:who are less known; as a writer, he has few equals. The "Annual Reports"
Words: 10:of the American and Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies for the past
Words: 12:fifteen or twenty years, have emanated from his pen. When posterity, in
Words: 12:digging among the tombs of the friends of mankind, and of universal
Words: 14:freedom, shall fail to find there the name of Edmund Quincy, it will be
Words: 8:because the engraver failed to do his duty.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:Were we sent out to find a man who should excel all others in
Words: 11:collecting together new facts and anecdotes, and varnishing up old ones
Words: 13:so that they would appear new, and bringing them into a meeting and
Words: 13:emptying out, good or bad, the whole contents of his sack, to the
Words: 10:delight and admiration of the audience, we would unhesitatingly select
Words: 16:James N. Buffum as the man. If Mr. Buffum is not a great speaker, he has
Words: 10:what many accomplished orators have not--_i.e._, a noble and generous
Words: 11:heart. If the fugitive slave, fresh from the cotton-field, should make
Words: 13:his appearance in the town of Lynn, in Massachusetts, and should need a
Words: 11:night's lodging or refreshments, he need go no farther than the
Words: 6:hospitable door of James N. Buffum.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Most men who inherit large fortunes, do little or nothing to benefit
Words: 12:mankind. A few, however, spend their means in the best possible manner:
Words: 13:one of the latter class is Gerrit Smith. The name of this gentleman
Words: 12:should have been brought forward among those who are first mentioned in
Words: 14:this chapter. Some eight or ten years ago, Mr. Smith was the owner of
Words: 13:large tracts of land, lying in twenty-nine counties in the State of New
Words: 14:York, and came to the strange conclusion to give the most of it away.
Words: 11:Consequently, three thousand lots of land, containing from thirty to one
Words: 11:hundred acres each, were given to coloured men residing in the
Words: 9:State--the writer of this being one of the number.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:Although universal suffrage is enjoyed by the whites in the State of New
Words: 11:York, a property-qualification is imposed on coloured men; and this act
Words: 14:of Mr. Smith's not only made three thousand men the owners of land, but
Words: 11:created also three thousand voters. The ability to give, and the
Words: 14:willingness to do so, is not by any means the greatest quality of this
Words: 12:gentleman. As a public speaker, Mr. Smith has few equals; and certainly
Words: 14:no man in his State has done more to forward the cause of Negro
Words: 3:Emancipation than he.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:We have already swelled the pages of this chapter beyond what we
Words: 13:intended when we commenced, but yet we have called attention to only one
Words: 11:branch of American Reformers. The Temperance Reformers are next to be
Words: 12:considered. This cause has many champions, and yet none who occupy a
Words: 10:very prominent position before the world. The first temperance newspaper
Words: 11:published in the United States, was edited by William Lloyd Garrison.
Words: 11:Gerrit Smith has also done much in promulgating temperance views. But
Words: 15:the most noted man in the movement at the present time, and the one best
Words: 14:known to the British public, is John B. Gough. This gentleman was at one
Words: 13:time an actor on the stage, and subsequently became an inebriate of the
Words: 10:most degraded kind. He was, however, reclaimed through the great
Words: 11:Washingtonian movement that swept over the United States a few years
Words: 14:since. In stature, Mr. Gough is tall and slim, with black hair, which he
Words: 13:usually wears too long. As an orator, he is considered among the first
Words: 13:in the United States. Having once been an actor, he throws all his
Words: 12:dramatic powers into his addresses. He has a facility of telling strange
Words: 11:and marvellous stories which can scarcely be surpassed; and what makes
Words: 11:them still more interesting, he always happens to be an eyewitness.
Words: 14:While speaking, he acts the drunkard, and does it in a style which could
Words: 14:not be equalled on the boards of the Lyceum or Adelphi. No man has
Words: 12:obtained more signatures to the temperance pledge than he. After all, it
Words: 14:is a question whether he has ever been of any permanent service to this
Words: 14:reform or not. Mr. Gough has more than once fallen from his position as
Words: 14:a teetotaler; more than once he has broken his pledge, and when found by
Words: 11:his friends, was in houses of a questionable character. However, some
Words: 15:are of opinion that these defects have been of use to him; for when he
Words: 11:has made his appearance after one of these debaucheries, the people
Words: 13:appear to sympathize more with him, and some thought he spoke better. If
Words: 13:we believe that a person could enjoy good health with water upon the
Words: 12:brain, we would be of opinion that Mr. Gough's cranium contained a
Words: 12:greater quantity than that of any other living man. When speaking before
Words: 14:an audience, he can weep when he pleases; and the tears shed on these
Words: 11:occasions are none of your make-believe kind--none of your small drops
Words: 12:trickling down the cheeks one at a time;--but they come in great
Words: 14:showers, so as even to sprinkle upon the paper which he holds in his
Words: 13:hand. Of course, he is not alone in shedding tears in his meetings,
Words: 12:many of his hearers usually join him; especially the ladies, as these
Words: 14:showers are intended for them. However, no one can sit for an hour and
Words: 13:hear John. B. Gough, without coming to the conclusion that he is nothing
Words: 5:more than a theatrical mountebank.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:The ablest speaker on the subject of Peace, is Charles Sumner. Standing
Words: 13:more than six feet in height, and well proportioned, Mr. Sumner makes a
Words: 11:most splendid and commanding appearance before an assembly. It is not
Words: 10:his looks alone that attract attention--his very countenance indicates a
Words: 12:superior mind. Born in the upper circle, educated in the first College
Words: 14:in the country, and finally becoming a member of the Bar, he is well
Words: 12:qualified to take the highest possible position as a public speaker. As
Words: 13:an orator, Charles Sumner has but one superior in the United States, and
Words: 12:that is Wendell Phillips. Mr. Sumner is an able advocate for the
Words: 14:liberation of the American Slaves as well as of the cause of Peace, and
Words: 8:has rendered great aid to the abolition movement.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:The name of Elihu Burritt, for many reasons, should be placed at the
Words: 14:head of the Peace Movement. No man was ever more devoted to one idea
Words: 16:than he is to that of peace. If he is an advocate of Temperance, it is
Words: 13:because it will promote peace. If he opposes Slavery, it is upon the
Words: 14:grounds of peace. Ask him why he wants an "Ocean Penny Postage," he will
Words: 12:tell you to engender the principles of peace. Everything with him hinges
Words: 13:upon the doctrine of peace. As a speaker, Mr. Burritt does not rank
Words: 13:amongst the first. However, his speeches are of a high order, some think
Words: 13:them too high, and complain that he is too much of a cloud-traveller,
Words: 12:and when he descends from these aerial flights and cloudy thrones, they
Words: 13:are unwilling to admit that he can be practical. If Mr. Burritt should
Words: 14:prove as good a statesman as a theorist, he would be an exception to
Words: 13:most who belong to the aerial school. As a writer he stands deservedly
Words: 14:high. In his "Sparks from the Anvil," and "Voice from the Forge," are to
Words: 15:be found as fine pieces as have been produced by any writer of the day.
Words: 13:His "Drunkard's Wife" is the most splendid thing of the kind in the
Words: 12:language. His stature is of the middle size, head well developed, with
Words: 10:eyes deeply set, and a prepossessing countenance, though not handsome;
Words: 11:he wears an exterior of remarkable austerity, and everything about him
Words: 13:is grave, even to his smile. Being well versed in the languages, ancient
Words: 12:and modern, he does not lack variety or imagination, either in his
Words: 11:public addresses or private conversation; yet it would be difficult to
Words: 13:find a man with a better heart, or sweeter spirit, than Elihu Burritt.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:LETTER XXII.
Words: 0:
Words: 5:_A Narrative of American Slavery._
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 10:Although the first slaves, introduced into the American Colonies from
Words: 13:the coast of Africa, were negroes of a very dark complexion with woolly
Words: 13:hair, and it was thought that slavery would be confined to the blacks,
Words: 12:yet the present slave population of America is far from being black.
Words: 11:This change in colour, is attributable, solely to the unlimited power
Words: 12:which the slave owner exercises over his victim. There being no lawful
Words: 11:marriage amongst slaves, and no encouragement to slave women to be
Words: 13:virtuous and chaste, there seems to be no limits to the system of
Words: 11:amalgamation carried on between master and slave. This accounts for the
Words: 13:fact, that most persons who go from Europe, or from the Free States,
Words: 11:into Carolina or Virginia, are struck with the different shades of
Words: 12:colour amongst the slaves. On a plantation employing fifty slaves, it is
Words: 13:not uncommon to see one third of them mulattoes, and some of these
Words: 2:nearly white.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:In the year 1831, there resided in the state of Virginia, a slave who
Words: 15:was so white, that no one would suppose for a moment that a drop of
Words: 12:African blood coursed through his veins. His skin was fair, hair soft,
Words: 12:straight, fine and white; his eyes blue, nose prominent, lips thin; his
Words: 12:head well formed, forehead high and prominent; and he was often taken
Words: 15:for a white free person, by those who did not know him. This made his
Words: 12:condition as a slave still more intolerable; for one so white, seldom
Words: 13:ever receives fair treatment at the hands of his fellow slaves; and the
Words: 12:whites usually regard such slaves as persons, who, if not often flogged
Words: 12:and otherwise ill treated, to remind them of their condition, would soon
Words: 12:"forget" that they were slaves, and "think themselves as good as white
Words: 11:folks." During that year, an insurrection broke out amongst the slave
Words: 10:population, known as the Southampton Rebellion, or the "Nat Turner
Words: 10:Insurrection." Five or six hundred slaves, believing in the doctrine
Words: 13:that "all men are created equal," armed with such weapons as they could
Words: 12:get, commenced a war for freedom. Amongst these was George, the white
Words: 14:slave of whom we have spoken. He had been employed as a house servant,
Words: 12:and had heard his master and visiters speak of the down-trodden and
Words: 13:oppressed Poles; he heard them talk of going to Greece to fight for
Words: 10:Grecian liberty, and against the oppressors of that ill-fated people.
Words: 14:George, fired with the love of freedom, and zeal for the cause of his
Words: 9:enslaved countrymen, joined the insurrection. The result of that
Words: 12:struggle for liberty is well known. The slaves were defeated, and those
Words: 12:who were not taken prisoners, took refuge in the dismal swamps. These
Words: 11:were ordered to surrender; but instead of doing so, they challenged
Words: 12:their proud oppressors to take them, and immediately renewed the war. A
Words: 11:ferocious struggle now commenced between the parties; but not until the
Words: 12:United States troops were called in, did they succeed in crushing a
Words: 13:handful of men and women who were fighting for freedom. The negroes were
Words: 13:hunted with dogs, and many who were caught were burnt alive; while some
Words: 10:were hung, and others flogged and banished from the State.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:Among those who were sentenced to be hanged, was George. He was placed
Words: 14:in prison to await the day of execution, which would give him ten days
Words: 15:to prepare for his doom. George was the son of a member of the American
Words: 11:Congress, his mother being a servant in the principal hotel in
Words: 12:Washington, where members of Congress usually put up. After the birth of
Words: 14:George, his mother was sold to a negro trader, and he to a Virginian,
Words: 14:who sent agents through the country to buy up young slaves to raise for
Words: 12:the market. George was only about nineteen years of age, when he
Words: 9:unfortunately became connected with the insurrection. Mr. Green, who
Words: 11:owned George, was a comparatively good master, and prided himself on
Words: 12:treating his slaves better than most men. This gentleman was also the
Words: 12:owner of a girl who was perfectly white, with straight hair and
Words: 13:prominent features. This girl was said to be the daughter of her own
Words: 12:master. A feeling of attachment sprang up between Mary and George, which
Words: 13:proved to be more than mere friendship, and upon which we base the
Words: 4:burden of this narrative.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:After poor George had been sentenced to death and cast into prison, Mary
Words: 12:begged and obtained leave to visit George, and administer to him the
Words: 13:comforts of religion, as she was a member of a religious body, while
Words: 12:George was not. As George had been a considerable favourite with Mrs.
Words: 12:Green, Mary had no difficulty in obtaining permission to pay a daily
Words: 15:visit to him, to whom she had pledged her heart and hand. At one of
Words: 12:these meetings, and only four days from the time fixed for the
Words: 12:execution, while Mary was seated in George's cell, it occurred to her
Words: 14:that she might yet save him from a felon's doom. She revealed to him
Words: 11:the secret that was then occupying her thoughts, viz., that George
Words: 11:should exchange clothes with her, and thus attempt his escape in
Words: 12:disguise. But he would not for a single moment listen to the
Words: 12:proposition. Not that he feared detection; but he would not consent to
Words: 12:place an innocent and affectionate girl in a position where she might
Words: 11:have to suffer for him. Mary pleaded, but in vain--George was
Words: 12:inflexible. The poor girl left her lover with a heavy heart, regretting
Words: 6:that her scheme had proved unsuccessful.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:Towards the close of the next day, Mary again appeared at the prison
Words: 15:door for admission, and was soon by the side of him whom she so ardently
Words: 12:loved. While there, the clouds which had overhung the city for some
Words: 12:hours, broke, and the rain fell in torrents amid the most terrific
Words: 10:thunder and lightning. In the most persuasive manner possible, Mary
Words: 11:again importuned George to avail himself of her assistance to escape
Words: 12:from an ignominious death. After assuring him that she not being the
Words: 11:person condemned, would not receive any injury, he at last consented,
Words: 13:and they began to exchange apparel. As George was of small stature, and
Words: 12:both were white, there was no difficulty in his passing out without
Words: 11:detection: and as she usually left the cell weeping, with handkerchief
Words: 15:in hand, and sometimes at her face, he had only to adopt this mode and
Words: 13:his escape was safe. They had kissed each other, and Mary had told
Words: 13:George where he would find a small parcel of provisions which she had
Words: 12:placed in a secluded spot, when the prison-keeper opened the door, and
Words: 13:said, "Come, girl, it is time for you to go." George again embraced
Words: 14:Mary, and passed out of the gaol. It was already dark and the street
Words: 15:lamps were lighted, so that our hero in his new dress had no dread of
Words: 12:detection. The provisions were sought out and found, and poor George was
Words: 14:soon on the road towards Canada. But neither of them had once thought of
Words: 14:a change of dress for George when he should have escaped, and he had
Words: 14:walked but a short distance before he felt that a change of his apparel
Words: 12:would facilitate his progress. But he dared not go amongst even his
Words: 11:coloured associates for fear of being betrayed. However, he made the
Words: 14:best of his way on towards Canada, hiding in the woods during the day,
Words: 11:and travelling by the guidance of the North Star at night.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:One morning, George arrived on the banks of the Ohio river, and found
Words: 13:his journey had terminated, unless he could get some one to take him
Words: 14:across the river in a secret manner, for he would not be permitted to
Words: 14:cross in any of the ferry boats; it being a penalty for crossing a
Words: 13:slave, besides the value of the slave. He concealed himself in the tall
Words: 13:grass and weeds near the river, to see if he could embrace an
Words: 13:opportunity to cross. He had been in his hiding-place but a short time,
Words: 13:when he observed a man in a small boat, floating near the shore,
Words: 14:evidently fishing. His first impulse was to call out to the man and ask
Words: 17:him to take him over to the Ohio side, but the fear that the man was a
Words: 12:slaveholder, or one who might possibly arrest him, deterred him from it.
Words: 13:The man after rowing and floating about for some time fastened the boat
Words: 13:to the root of a tree, and started to a neighbouring farm-house. This
Words: 12:was George's moment, and he seized it. Running down the bank, he
Words: 12:unfastened the boat, jumped in, and with all the expertness of one
Words: 13:accustomed to a boat, rowed across the river and landed on the Ohio
Words: 1:side.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:Being now in a free state, he thought he might with perfect safety
Words: 14:travel on towards Canada. He had, however, gone but a few miles, when he
Words: 12:discovered two men on horseback coming behind him. He felt sure that
Words: 17:they could not be in pursuit of him, yet he did not wish to be seen by
Words: 14:them, so he turned into another road, leading to a house near by. The
Words: 14:men followed, and were but a short distance from George, when he ran up
Words: 13:to a farm house, before which was standing a farmer-looking man, in a
Words: 11:broad-brimmed hat and straight collared coat, whom he implored to save
Words: 13:him from the "slave-catchers." The farmer told him to go into the barn
Words: 13:near by; he entered by the front door, the farmer following, and closing
Words: 11:the door behind George, but remaining outside, and gave directions to
Words: 14:his hired man as to what should be done with George. The slaveholders by
Words: 13:this time had dismounted, and were in the front of the barn demanding
Words: 10:admittance, and charging the farmer with secreting their slave woman,
Words: 15:for George was still in the dress of a woman. The Friend, for the farmer
Words: 13:proved to be a member of the Society of Friends, told the slave-owners
Words: 14:that if they wished to search his barn, they must first get an officer
Words: 12:and a search warrant. While the parties were disputing, the farmer began
Words: 15:nailing up the front door, and the hired man served the back door in the
Words: 12:same way. The slaveholders, finding that they could not prevail on the
Words: 15:Friend to allow them to get the slave, determined to go in search of an
Words: 14:officer. One was left to see that the slave did not escape from the
Words: 13:barn, while the other went off at full speed to Mount Pleasant, the
Words: 14:nearest town. George was not the slave of either of these men, nor were
Words: 16:they in pursuit of him, but they had lost a woman who had been seen in
Words: 13:that vicinity, and when they saw poor George in the disguise of a
Words: 12:female, and attempting to elude pursuit, they felt sure they were close
Words: 13:upon their victim. However, if they had caught him, although he was not
Words: 14:their slave, they would have taken him back and placed him in goal, and
Words: 9:there he would have remained until his owner arrived.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:After an absence of nearly two hours, the slave owner returned with an
Words: 13:officer and found the Friend still driving large nails into the door. In
Words: 11:a triumphant tone, and with a corresponding gesture, he handed the
Words: 14:search-warrant to the Friend, and said, "There, Sir, now I will see if I
Words: 13:can't get my Nigger." "Well," said the Friend, "thou hast gone to work
Words: 14:according to law, and thou can now go into my barn." "Lend me your
Words: 14:hammer that I may get the door open," said the slaveholder. "Let me see
Words: 14:the warrant again." And after reading it over once more, he said, "I see
Words: 14:nothing in this paper which says I must supply thee with tools to open
Words: 15:my door; if thou wishes to go in, thou must get a hammer elsewhere." The
Words: 12:sheriff said, "I will go to a neighbouring farm and borrow something
Words: 12:which will introduce us to Miss Dinah;" and he immediately went in
Words: 12:search of tools. In a short time the officer returned, and they
Words: 12:commenced an assault and battery upon the barn door, which soon yielded;
Words: 13:and in went the slaveholder and officer, and began turning up the hay
Words: 13:and using all other means to find the lost property; but, to their
Words: 12:astonishment, the slave was not there. After all hope of getting Dinah
Words: 14:was gone, the slave-owner in a rage, said to the Friend, "My Nigger is
Words: 16:not here." "I did not tell thee there was any one here." "Yes, but I saw
Words: 17:her go in, and you shut the door behind her, and if she was not in the
Words: 16:barn, what did you nail the door for?" "Can't I do what I please with my
Words: 14:own barn door? Now I will tell thee; thou need trouble thyself no more,
Words: 15:for the person thou art after entered the front door and went out at the
Words: 16:back door, and is a long way from here by this time. Thou and thy friend
Words: 14:must be somewhat fatigued by this time, wont thou go in and take a
Words: 14:little dinner with me?" We need not say that this cool invitation of the
Words: 11:good Quaker was not accepted by the slaveholders. George, in the
Words: 12:meantime, had been taken to a Friend's dwelling some miles away, where,
Words: 13:after laying aside his female attire, and being snugly dressed up in a
Words: 12:straight collared coat, and pantaloons to match, was again put on the
Words: 13:right road towards Canada. Two weeks after this found him in the town
Words: 13:of St. Catharines, working on the farm of Colonel Strut, and attending a
Words: 2:night school.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:George, however, did not forget his promise to use all means in his
Words: 13:power to get Mary out of slavery. He, therefore, laboured with all his
Words: 14:might, to obtain money with which to employ some one to go back to
Words: 12:Virginia for Mary. After nearly six months' labour at St. Catharines, he
Words: 13:employed an English missionary to go and see if the girl could be
Words: 10:purchased, and at what price. The missionary went accordingly, but
Words: 11:returned with the sad intelligence that on account of Mary's aiding
Words: 14:George to escape, the court had compelled Mr. Green to sell her out of
Words: 16:the State, and she had been sold to a Negro trader and taken to the New
Words: 13:Orleans market. As all hope of getting the girl was now gone, George
Words: 11:resolved to quit the American continent for ever. He immediately took
Words: 13:passage in a vessel laden with timber, bound for Liverpool, and in five
Words: 14:weeks from that time he was standing on the quay of the great English
Words: 12:seaport. With little or no education, he found many difficulties in the
Words: 11:way of getting a respectable living. However, he obtained a situation
Words: 13:as porter in a large house in Manchester, where he worked during the
Words: 13:day, and took private lessons at night. In this way he laboured for
Words: 14:three years, and was then raised to the situation of a clerk. George was
Words: 14:so white as easily to pass for a white man, and being somewhat ashamed
Words: 13:of his African descent, he never once mentioned the fact of his having
Words: 14:been a slave. He soon became a partner in the firm that employed him,
Words: 8:and was now on the road to wealth.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:In the year 1842, just ten years after George Green (for he adopted his
Words: 11:master's name) arrived in England, he visited France, and spent some
Words: 15:days at Dunkirk. It was towards sunset, on a warm day in the month of
Words: 12:October, that Mr. Green, after strolling some distance from the Hotel de
Words: 12:Leon, entered a burial ground and wandered long alone among the silent
Words: 12:dead, gazing upon the many green graves and marble tombstones of those
Words: 14:who once moved on the theatre of busy life, and whose sounds of gaiety
Words: 14:once fell upon the ear of man. All nature around was hushed in silence,
Words: 12:and seemed to partake of the general melancholy which hung over the
Words: 10:quiet resting place of departed mortals. After tracing the varied
Words: 10:inscriptions which told the characters or conditions of the departed,
Words: 12:and viewing the mounds 'neath which the dust of mortality slumbered, he
Words: 13:had now reached a secluded spot, near to where an aged weeping willow
Words: 13:bowed its thick foliage to the ground, as though anxious to hide from
Words: 11:the scrutinizing gaze of curiosity the grave beneath it. Mr. Green
Words: 14:seated himself upon a marble tomb, and began to read Roscoe's Leo X., a
Words: 15:copy of which he had under his arm. It was then about twilight, and he
Words: 14:had scarcely gone through half a page, when he observed a lady in black,
Words: 16:leading a boy some five years old up one of the paths; and as the lady's
Words: 14:black veil was over her face, he felt somewhat at liberty to eye her
Words: 13:more closely. While looking at her, the lady gave a scream and appeared
Words: 14:to be in a fainting position, when Mr. Green sprang from his seat in
Words: 14:time to save her from falling to the ground. At this moment, an elderly
Words: 11:gentleman was seen approaching with a rapid step, who from his
Words: 10:appearance was evidently the lady's father, or one intimately connected
Words: 14:with her. He came up, and in a confused manner, asked what was the
Words: 13:matter. Mr. Green explained as well as he could. After taking up the
Words: 13:smelling bottle which had fallen from her hand, and holding it a short
Words: 14:time to her face, she soon began to revive. During all this time, the
Words: 14:lady's veil had so covered her face, that Mr. Green had not seen it.
Words: 16:When she had so far recovered as to be able to raise her head, she again
Words: 14:screamed, and fell back into the arms of the old man. It now appeared
Words: 11:quite certain, that either the countenance of George Green, or some
Words: 13:other object, was the cause of these fits of fainting; and the old
Words: 12:gentleman, thinking it was the former, in rather a petulant tone said,
Words: 15:"I will thank you, Sir, if you will leave us alone." The child whom the
Words: 13:lady was leading had now set up a squall; and amid the death-like
Words: 15:appearance of the lady, the harsh look of the old man, and the cries of
Words: 12:the boy, Mr. Green left the grounds and returned to his hotel.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Whilst seated by the window, and looking out upon the crowded street,
Words: 12:with every now and then the strange scene in the grave-yard vividly
Words: 13:before him, Mr. Green thought of the book he had been reading, and,
Words: 13:remembering that he had left it on the tomb, where he had suddenly
Words: 12:dropped it when called to the assistance of the lady, he immediately
Words: 13:determined to return in search of it. After a walk of some twenty
Words: 14:minutes, he was again over the spot where he had been an hour before,
Words: 13:and from which he had been so unceremoniously expelled by the old man.
Words: 15:He looked in vain for the book; it was no where to be found: nothing
Words: 13:save a bouquet which the lady had dropped, and which lay half-buried in
Words: 13:the grass from having been trodden upon, indicated that any one had been
Words: 13:there that evening. Mr. Green took up the bunch of flowers, and again
Words: 4:returned to the hotel.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:After passing a sleepless night, and hearing the clock strike six, he
Words: 14:dropped into a sweet sleep, from which he did not awake until roused by
Words: 14:the rap of a servant, who, entering his room, handed him a note which
Words: 11:ran as follows:--"Sir,--I owe you an apology for the inconveniences to
Words: 13:which you were subjected last evening, and if you will honour us with
Words: 14:your presence to dinner to-day at four o'clock, I shall be most happy to
Words: 13:give you due satisfaction. My servant will be in waiting for you at
Words: 11:half-past three. I am, sir, your obedt. servant, J. Devenant. October
Words: 5:23, to George Green, Esq."
Words: 0:
Words: 13:The servant who handed this note to Mr. Green, informed him that the
Words: 12:bearer was waiting for a reply. He immediately resolved to accept the
Words: 11:invitation, and replied accordingly. Who this person was, and how his
Words: 14:name and the hotel where he was stopping had been found out, was indeed
Words: 13:a mystery. However, he waited impatiently for the hour when he was to
Words: 11:see this new acquaintance, and get the mysterious meeting in the
Words: 2:grave-yard solved.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:The clock on a neighbouring church had scarcely ceased striking three,
Words: 13:when the servant announced that a carriage had called for Mr. Green. In
Words: 14:less than half an hour, he was seated in a most sumptuous barouch, drawn
Words: 12:by two beautiful iron greys, and rolling along over a splendid gravel
Words: 12:road, completely shaded by large trees which appeared to have been the
Words: 10:accumulating growth of many centuries. The carriage soon stopped in
Words: 13:front of a low villa, and this too was imbedded in magnificent trees
Words: 12:covered with moss. Mr. Green alighted and was shown into a superb
Words: 13:drawing room, the walls of which were hung with fine specimens from the
Words: 12:hands of the great Italian painters, and one by a German artist
Words: 9:representing a beautiful monkish legend connected with "The Holy
Words: 10:Catherine," and illustrious lady of Alexandria. The furniture had an
Words: 10:antique and dignified appearance. High backed chairs stood around the
Words: 11:room; a venerable mirror stood on the mantle-shelf; rich curtains of
Words: 14:crimson damask hung in folds at either side of the large windows; and a
Words: 12:rich Turkey carpet covered the floor. In the centre stood a table
Words: 13:covered with books, in the midst of which was an old fashioned vase
Words: 10:filled with fresh flowers, whose fragrance was exceedingly pleasant. A
Words: 12:faint light, together with the quietness of the hour gave beauty beyond
Words: 5:description to the whole scene.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Mr. Green had scarcely seated himself upon the sofa, when the elderly
Words: 11:gentleman whom he had met the previous evening made his appearance,
Words: 12:followed by the little boy, and introduced himself as Mr. Devenant. A
Words: 10:moment more, and a lady--a beautiful brunette--dressed in black, with
Words: 12:long curls of a chesnut colour hanging down her cheeks, entered the
Words: 13:room. Her eyes were of a dark hazel, and her whole appearance indicated
Words: 15:that she was a native of a southern clime. The door at which she entered
Words: 11:was opposite to where the two gentlemen were seated. They immediately
Words: 14:rose; and Mr. Devenant was in the act of introducing her to Mr. Green,
Words: 14:when he observed that the latter had sunk back upon the sofa, and the
Words: 14:last word that he remembered to have heard was, "It is her." After this,
Words: 14:all was dark and dreamy: how long he remained in this condition it was
Words: 13:for another to tell. When he awoke, he found himself stretched upon the
Words: 10:sofa, with his boots off, his neckerchief removed, shirt collar
Words: 14:unbuttoned, and his head resting upon a pillow. By his side sat the old
Words: 15:man, with the smelling bottle in the one hand, and a glass of water in
Words: 15:the other, and the little boy standing at the foot of the sofa. As soon
Words: 15:as Mr. Green had so far recovered as to be able to speak, he said,
Words: 14:"Where am I, and what does this mean?" "Wait a while," replied the old
Words: 15:man, "and I will tell you all." After the lapse of some ten minutes he
Words: 14:rose from the sofa, adjusted his apparel, and said, "I am now ready to
Words: 14:hear anything you have to say." "You were born in America," said the old
Words: 12:man. "Yes," he replied. "And you were acquainted with a girl named
Words: 15:Mary," continued the old man. "Yes, and I loved her as I can love none
Words: 12:other." "The lady whom you met so mysteriously last evening is Mary,"
Words: 11:replied Mr. Devenant. George Green was silent, but the fountains of
Words: 12:mingled grief and joy stole out from beneath his eye lashes, and
Words: 11:glistened like pearls upon his pale and marble-like cheeks. At this
Words: 12:juncture the lady again entered the room. Mr. Green sprang from the
Words: 14:sofa, and they fell into each other's arms, to the surprise of the old
Words: 13:man and little George, and to the amusement of the servants who had
Words: 15:crept up one by one, and were hid behind the doors or loitering in the
Words: 12:hall. When they had given vent to their feelings, they resumed their
Words: 12:seats and each in turn related the adventures through which they had
Words: 13:passed. "How did you find out my name and address," asked Mr. Green?
Words: 13:"After you had left us in the grave-yard, our little George said, 'O,
Words: 15:mamma, if there aint a book!' and picked it up and brought it to us.
Words: 13:Papa opened it, and said 'the gentleman's name is written in it, and
Words: 15:here is a card of the Hotel de Leon, where I suppose he is stopping.'
Words: 16:Papa wished to leave the book, and said it was all a fancy of mine that
Words: 14:I had ever seen you before, but I was perfectly convinced that you were
Words: 13:my own George Green. Are you married?" "No, I am not." "Then, thank
Words: 13:God!" exclaimed Mrs. Devenant. The old man who had been silent all this
Words: 14:time, said, "Now, Sir, I must apologize for the trouble you were put to
Words: 12:last evening." "And you are single now." "Yes," she replied. "This is
Words: 12:indeed the Lord's doings," said Mr. Green, at the same time bursting
Words: 14:into a flood of tears. Although Mr. Devenant was past the age when men
Words: 10:should think upon matrimonial subjects, yet this scene brought vividly
Words: 16:before his eyes the days when he was a young man, and had a wife living,
Words: 13:and he thought it time to call their attention to dinner, which was
Words: 13:then waiting. We need scarcely add, that Mr. Green and Mrs. Devenant did
Words: 8:very little towards diminishing the dinner that day.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:After dinner the lovers (for such we have to call them) gave their
Words: 12:experience from the time that George Green left the gaol, dressed in
Words: 12:Mary's clothes. Up to that time, Mr. Green's was substantially as we
Words: 11:have related it. Mrs. Devenant's was as follows:--"The night after you
Words: 15:left the prison," said she, "I did not shut my eyes in sleep. The next
Words: 13:morning, about 8 o'clock, Peter, the gardener, came to the gaol to see
Words: 15:if I had been there the night before, and was informed that I had, and
Words: 14:that I left a little after dark. About an hour after, Mr. Green came
Words: 14:himself, and I need not say that he was much surprised on finding me
Words: 13:there, dressed in your clothes. This was the first tidings they had of
Words: 14:your escape." "What did Mr. Green say when he found that I had fled?"
Words: 14:"O!" continued Mrs. Devenant, "he said to me when no one was near, I
Words: 15:hope George will get off, but I fear you will have to suffer in his
Words: 17:stead. I told him that if it must be so I was willing to die if you
Words: 12:could live." At this moment George Green burst into tears, threw his
Words: 14:arms around her neck, and exclaimed, "I am glad I have waited so long,
Words: 7:with the hope of meeting you again."
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Mrs. Devenant again resumed her story:--"I was kept in gaol three days,
Words: 13:during which time I was visited by the Magistrates and two of the
Words: 16:Judges. On the third day I was taken out, and master told me that I was
Words: 12:liberated, upon condition that I be immediately sent out of the State.
Words: 12:There happened to be just at that time in the neighbourhood a
Words: 13:negro-trader, and he purchased me, and I was taken to New Orleans. On
Words: 13:the steam-boat we were kept in a close room where slaves are usually
Words: 14:confined, so that I saw nothing of the passengers on board or the towns
Words: 13:we passed. We arrived at New Orleans and were all put into the
Words: 12:slave-market for sale. I was examined by many persons, but none seemed
Words: 14:willing to purchase me; as all thought me too white, and said I would
Words: 16:run away and pass as a free white woman. On the second day while in the
Words: 10:slave-market, and while planters and others were examining slaves and
Words: 13:making their purchases, I observed a tall young man with long black hair
Words: 14:eyeing me very closely, and then talking to the trader. I felt sure that
Words: 15:my time had now come, but the day closed without my being sold. I did
Words: 13:not regret this, for I had heard that foreigners made the worst of
Words: 14:masters, and I felt confident that the man who eyed me so closely was
Words: 3:not an American.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:"The next day was the Sabbath. The bells called the people to the
Words: 10:different places of worship. Methodists sang, and Baptists immersed, and
Words: 9:Presbyterians sprinkled, and Episcopalians read their prayers, while the
Words: 12:ministers of the various sects preached that Christ died for all; yet
Words: 12:there were some twenty-five or thirty of us poor creatures confined in
Words: 13:the '_Negro Pen_' awaiting the close of the Holy Sabbath, and the dawn
Words: 14:of another day, to be again taken into the market, there to be examined
Words: 15:like so many beasts of burden. I need not tell you with what anxiety we
Words: 13:waited for the advent of another day. On Monday we were again brought
Words: 14:out, and placed in rows to be inspected; and fortunately for me, I was
Words: 15:sold before we had been on the stand an hour. I was purchased by a
Words: 13:gentleman residing in the city, for a waiting-maid for his wife, who was
Words: 15:just on the eve of starting for Mobile, to pay a visit to a near
Words: 12:relation. I was then dressed to suit the situation of a maid-servant;
Words: 16:and, upon the whole, I thought that in my new dress I looked as much the
Words: 4:lady as my mistress.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:"On the passage to Mobile, who should I see among the passengers, but
Words: 12:the tall, long-haired man that had eyed me so closely in the
Words: 13:slave-market a few days before. His eyes were again on me, and he
Words: 15:appeared anxious to speak to me, and I as reluctant to be spoken to. The
Words: 12:first evening after leaving New Orleans, soon after twilight had let her
Words: 15:curtain down, and pinned it with a star, and while I was seated on the
Words: 12:deck of the boat, near the ladies' cabin, looking upon the rippled
Words: 15:waves, and the reflection of the moon upon the sea, all at once I saw
Words: 14:the tall young man standing by my side. I immediately rose from my seat,
Words: 15:and was in the act of returning to the cabin, when he in a broken
Words: 16:accent said, 'Stop a moment; I wish to have a word with you. I am your
Words: 15:friend.' I stopped and looked him full in the face, and he said, 'I saw
Words: 12:you some days since in the slave-market, and I intended to have
Words: 14:purchased you to save you from the condition of a slave. I called on
Words: 14:Monday, but you had been sold and had left the market. I inquired and
Words: 15:learned who the purchaser was, and that you had to go to Mobile, so I
Words: 15:resolved to follow you. If you are willing, I will try and buy you from
Words: 14:your present owner, and you shall be free.' Although this was said in an
Words: 14:honest and off-hand manner, I could not believe the man to be sincere in
Words: 16:what he said. 'Why should you wish to set _me_ free?' I asked. 'I had an
Words: 13:only sister,' he replied, 'who died three years ago in France, and you
Words: 16:are so much like her, that had I not known of her death, I would most
Words: 12:certainly have taken you for her.' 'However much I may resemble your
Words: 15:sister, you are aware that I am not her, and why take so much interest
Words: 15:in one whom you never saw before?' 'The love,' said he, 'which I had for
Words: 13:my sister is transferred to you.' I had all along suspected that the
Words: 14:man was a knave, and this profession of love confirmed me in my former
Words: 8:belief, and I turned away and left him.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:"The next day, while standing in the cabin and looking through the
Words: 13:window, the French gentleman (for such he was) came to the window while
Words: 12:walking on the guards, and again commenced as on the previous evening.
Words: 17:He took from his pocket a bit of paper and put into my hand, and at the
Words: 14:same time saying, 'Take this, it may some day be of service to you,
Words: 13:remember it is from a friend,' and left me instantly. I unfolded the
Words: 15:paper, and found it to be a 100 dols. bank note, on the United States
Words: 13:Branch Bank, at Philadelphia. My first impulse was to give it to my
Words: 12:mistress, but upon a second thought, I resolved to seek an opportunity,
Words: 12:and to return the hundred dollars to the stranger. Therefore, I looked
Words: 15:for him, but in vain; and had almost given up the idea of seeing him
Words: 14:again, when he passed me on the guards of the boat and walked towards
Words: 14:the stem of the vessel. It being now dark, I approached him and offered
Words: 15:the money to him. He declined, saying at the same time, 'I gave it to
Words: 14:you--keep it.' 'I do not want it,' I said. 'Now,' said he, 'you had
Words: 14:better give your consent for me to purchase you, and you shall go with
Words: 15:me to France.' 'But you cannot buy me now,' I replied, 'for my master is
Words: 15:in New Orleans, and he purchased me not to sell, but to retain in his
Words: 11:own family.' 'Would you rather remain with your present mistress, than
Words: 14:be free?' 'No,' said I. 'Then fly with me to-night; we shall be in
Words: 13:Mobile in two hours from this, and, when the passengers are going on
Words: 13:shore, you can take my arm, and you can escape unobserved. The trader
Words: 13:who brought you to New Orleans exhibited to me a certificate of your
Words: 13:good character, and one from the Minister of the Church to which you
Words: 12:were attached in Virginia; and upon the faith of these assurances, and
Words: 15:the love I bear you, I promise before high heaven that I will marry you
Words: 14:as soon as it can be done.' This solemn promise, coupled with what had
Words: 13:already transpired, gave me confidence in the man; and rash as the act
Words: 14:may seem, I determined in an instant to go with him. My mistress had
Words: 15:been put under the charge of the captain; and as it would be past ten
Words: 12:o'clock when the steamer would land, she accepted an invitation of the
Words: 12:captain to remain on board with several other ladies till morning. I
Words: 15:dressed myself in my best clothes, and put a veil over my face, and was
Words: 13:ready on the landing of the boat. Surrounded by a number of passengers,
Words: 14:we descended the stage leading to the wharf and were soon lost in the
Words: 13:crowd that thronged the quay. As we went on shore we encountered several
Words: 12:persons announcing the names of hotels, the starting of boats for the
Words: 11:interior, and vessels bound for Europe. Among these was the ship
Words: 11:_Utica_, Captain Pell, bound for Havre. 'Now,' said Mr. Devenant, 'this
Words: 15:is our chance.' The ship was to sail at 12 o'clock that night, at high
Words: 11:tide; and following the men who were seeking passengers, we went
Words: 13:immediately on board. Devenant told the Captain of the ship that I was
Words: 14:his sister, and for such we passed during the voyage. At the hour of
Words: 12:twelve the _Utica_ set sail, and we were soon out at sea.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:"The morning after we left Mobile, Devenant met me as I came from my
Words: 14:state-room and embraced me for the first time. I loved him, but it was
Words: 14:only that affection which we have for one who has done us a lasting
Words: 14:favour: it was the love of gratitude rather than that of the heart. We
Words: 15:were five weeks on the sea, and yet the passage did not seem long, for
Words: 14:Devenant was so kind. On our arrival at Havre, we were married and came
Words: 9:to Dunkirk, and I have resided here ever since."
Words: 0:
Words: 14:At the close of this narrative, the clock struck ten, when the old man,
Words: 13:who was accustomed to retire at an early hour, rose to take leave,
Words: 14:saying at the same time, "I hope you will remain with us to-night." Mr.
Words: 12:Green would fain have excused himself, on the ground that they would
Words: 16:expect him and wait at the hotel, but a look from the lady told him to
Words: 12:accept the invitation. The old man was the father of Mrs. Devenant's
Words: 12:deceased husband, as you will no doubt long since have supposed. A
Words: 13:fortnight from the day on which they met in the grave-yard, Mr. Green
Words: 13:and Mrs. Devenant were joined in holy wedlock; so that George and Mary,
Words: 13:who had loved each other so ardently in their younger days, were now
Words: 10:husband and wife. Without becoming responsible for the truthfulness of
Words: 16:the above narrative, I give it to you, reader, as it was told to me in
Words: 8:January last, in France, by George Green himself.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:A celebrated writer has justly said of woman: "A woman's whole life is a
Words: 13:history of the affections. The heart is her world; it is there her
Words: 12:ambition strives for empire; it is there her avarice seeks for hidden
Words: 11:treasures. She sends forth her sympathies on adventure; she embarks her
Words: 13:whole soul in the traffic of affection; and if shipwrecked, her case is
Words: 8:hopeless--for it is a bankruptcy of the heart."
Words: 0:
Words: 13:Mary had every reason to believe that she would never see George again;
Words: 12:and although she confesses that the love she bore him was never
Words: 12:transferred to her first husband, we can scarcely find fault with her
Words: 12:for marrying Mr. Devenant. But the adherence of George Green to the
Words: 12:resolution never to marry, unless to his Mary, is, indeed, a rare
Words: 15:instance of the fidelity of man in the matter of love. We can but blush
Words: 13:for our country's shame, when we recall to mind the fact, that while
Words: 11:George and Mary Green, and numbers of other fugitives from American
Words: 11:slavery, can receive protection from any of the Governments of Europe,
Words: 10:they cannot return to their native land without becoming slaves.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 1:                FINIS.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 6:  AYR: PRINTED AT THE ADVERTISER OFFICE.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 2:Transcriber's notes:
Words: 1:====================
Words: 0:
Words: 9:ERRATA from the original volume, applied to the text.
Words: 1:======
Words: 0:
Words: 10:Page 8, eleventh line from bottom, _for_ villages _read_ villas
Words: 11:The beautiful villages [**Erratum: villas] on the opposite side of the
Words: 0:
Words: 9:145, fourth line from top, _for_ Dante _read_ Whittier
Words: 5:our own Dante? [**Erratum: Whittier?]
Words: 0:
Words: 9:205, second line from bottom, _for_ towns _read_ lawns
Words: 10:in the vicinity of the lakes. Magnificent towns [**Erratum: lawns]
Words: 0:
Words: 9:264, seventh line from top, _for_ 1834 _read_ 1844
Words: 11:In the month of May, 1834, [**Erratum: 1844,] while one evening
Words: 0:
Words: 9:273, eighth line from top, _for_ vanity _read_ variety
Words: 10:lack vanity [**Erratum: variety] or imagination, either in his public
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Letter XXIII displaced to be between XII and XIII, as per editor's
Words: 1:footnote.
Words: 0:
Words: 1:TYPOS
Words: 1:=====
Words: 0:
Words: 9:All "Mr" replaced with "Mr." (~10%).  Similarly for "Mrs".
Words: 0:
Words: 10:play," was to flag [**typo: flog] his slaves severely, and
Words: 0:
Words: 9:tyranny in Great Britian [**typo: Britain] found social and
Words: 0:
Words: 9:passengers, forty of whom were the "Vienneise [**typo: Viennese]
Words: 0:
Words: 12:we were in sight of the land of Emmitt [**typo: Emmett] and
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Rev. Dr. Ritchie, of Edinburgh. [** quote deleted] "It is indeed a
Words: 0:
Words: 9:by M. Duguery, [**typo: Duguerry,] curé of the Madeleine,
Words: 0:
Words: 10:The column is in imitation of the Trojan [**typo: Trajan]
Words: 0:
Words: 11:XVI. and Marie Antionette [**typo: Antoinette] were driven from it by
Words: 0:
Words: 12:building. [** full-stop added] The speaker, in the delivery of one of
Words: 0:
Words: 3:Fète. [**typo: Fête.]
Words: 0:
Words: 9:soirèe [**typo: soirée] by M. de Tocqueville, Minister for
Words: 0:
Words: 11:to the whole scene out of doors. The soirèe [**typo: soirée]
Words: 0:
Words: 11:announced, and after a good deal of jambing [**typo: jamming] and
Words: 0:
Words: 12:same basket, without any regard to birth or station. [** full-stop added]
Words: 0:
Words: 10:had more interesting incidents occuring [**typo: occurring] in it than
Words: 0:
Words: 10:of Raphael and David--Arc de Triomphe--Beranger  [** final em-dash added]
Words: 0:
Words: 12:Jardin des Plantes, and spent an hour and a-half [**typo: a half]
Words: 0:
Words: 10:Were [**typo: were] at the time continually running through my
Words: 0:
Words: 11:meeted [**typo: meted] out to me while at Hartwell. And the
Words: 0:
Words: 14:I will see you." [** missing quote inserted] In looking across the street, I
Words: 0:
Words: 8:great contrast beetween [**typo: between] the monster Institution,
Words: 0:
Words: 11:The Tower is surounded [**typo: surrounded] by a high wall, and
Words: 0:
Words: 9:skilful muscians; [**typo: musicians;] I have listened with delight
Words: 0:
Words: 9:history, and the accumulated discoveries of byegone [**typo: bygone]
Words: 0:
Words: 11:acquiline, [**typo: aquiline] his mouth rather small, and not at all
Words: 0:
Words: 11:and died at Newstead Abbey, November 18, 1808." [**missing quote inserted]
Words: 0:
Words: 7:with the poet and saying:-- [**colon added]
Words: 0:
Words: 10:had such ruins in view when he exclaimed:-- [**colon added]
Words: 0:
Words: 11:Elyses [**typo: Elysees] at Paris; and as for statuary, the latter
Words: 0:
Words: 8:where the celebrated Reformer, John Knox, re-resided.[**typo: resided.]
Words: 0:
Words: 14:lake is carved out and and [**typo: deleted second "and"] built up into terrace
Words: 0:
Words: 13:through to the north gallery, and and [**typo: deleted second "and"] thence to
Words: 0:
Words: 10:myself upon so diminutive a looking [**typo: looking a] creature.
Words: 0:
Words: 9:upon the wing--the artifical [**typo: artificial] stream, the brook
Words: 0:
Words: 11:seemed to have forgotton [**typo: forgotten] that this was an exhibition
Words: 0:
Words: 12:"Sartar [**typo: Sartor] Resartus," and if he does not rise from its
Words: 0:
Words: 10:the cloisters of Tinterran [**typo: Tintern] Abbey, in its proudest
Words: 0:
Words: 9:that which has accomplished the mightest [**typo: mightiest] and
Words: 0:
Words: 10:That measure was in every respect an unconsitutional [**typo: unconstitutional]
Words: 0:
Words: 10:practice what they have so long professsd [**typo: professed]. (Hear,
Words: 0:
Words: 10:I had writen [**typo: written] for the occasion, was unanimously
Words: 0:
Words: 11:taken him back and placed him in goal [**typo: gaol], and
Words: 0:
Words: 9:was kept in goal [**typo: gaol] three days, during
Words: 0:
Words: 11:into my hand, and at the sametime [**typo: same time] saying,
Words: 0:
Words: 12:be a 100 dols. Bank [**typo?: bank] note, on the United States
Words: 0:
Words: 11:But the adherence of George Green to the re-resolution [**typo: resolution]
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 11:Apparent errata, but possibly acceptable period words: (left as-is in text).
Words: 1:===============
Words: 0:
Words: 9:without the least difficulty, and his jestures, [**typo: gestures,]
Words: 10:   Per OED, jesture obs. form of gesture. May be typo?
Words: 0:
Words: 10:motion, and the variagated [**typo: variegated] lamps with their many
Words: 14:   Per OED, verb variagate was known variant of variegate up to the 19th century
Words: 0:
Words: 10:enemies on the 13th Vendimaire [**typo: Vendémiaire]. The Hotel de
Words: 8:  May be British variant used at the period
Words: 0:
Words: 10:observed visiters [**typo: visitors] lingering about it, as if they
Words: 5:  May be valid past spelling
Words: 0:
Words: 11:being conveyed to them by means of a pully-basket, [**typo: pulley-basket,]
Words: 9:   Per OED, pully known variant of pulley, 15th-19th centuries
Words: 0:
Words: 9:under heaven!--Perish the sum of all villanies! [**typo: villainies!]
Words: 7:   Per OED, known alternate spelling, 16th-19th centuries
Words: 0:
Words: 8:force, carrying, upsetting, engulphing [**typo: engulfing] its adversaries,
Words: 10:   Per OED, known alternate spelling (along with ingulf and ingulph);
Words: 9:   an example of engulph quoted from an 1871 source.
Words: 0:
Words: 9:master and visiters [**typo: visitors] speak of the down-trodden
Words: 5:  May be valid past spelling
Words: 0:
Words: 11:with long curls of a chesnut [**typo: chestnut] colour hanging down
Words: 12:   Per OED, chesnut was the most common spelling as late as 1820.
Words: 6:   Johnson set "chestnut" as the standard...
Words: 0:
Words: 6:Others found to be acceptable variants:
Words: 1:   Bastile,
Words: 1:   plebians,
Words: 1:   laureat,
Words: 1:   trode,
Words: 1:   Shakspere.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 10:***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THREE YEARS IN EUROPE***
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 10:******* This file should be named 15830-8.txt or 15830-8.zip *******
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 12:This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
Words: 1:http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/1/5/8/3/15830
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 9:Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
Words: 3:will be renamed.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
Words: 12:one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
Words: 12:(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
Words: 8:permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
Words: 14:set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
Words: 8:copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
Words: 8:protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Words: 12:Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
Words: 11:charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
Words: 12:do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
Words: 13:rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
Words: 9:such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
Words: 12:research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
Words: 8:practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
Words: 7:subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
Words: 1:redistribution.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 5:*** START: FULL LICENSE ***
Words: 0:
Words: 5:THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
Words: 10:PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK
Words: 0:
Words: 10:To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
Words: 10:distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
Words: 12:(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Words: 13:Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Words: 9:Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
Words: 1:http://gutenberg.net/license).
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 10:Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
Words: 2:electronic works
Words: 0:
Words: 11:1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
Words: 11:electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
Words: 11:and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
Words: 11:(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
Words: 13:the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
Words: 10:all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
Words: 15:If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Words: 13:Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
Words: 13:terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
Words: 13:entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
Words: 14:used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
Words: 14:agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
Words: 11:things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
Words: 11:even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
Words: 14:paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Words: 11:Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
Words: 10:and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
Words: 5:works.  See paragraph 1.E below.
Words: 0:
Words: 9:1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
Words: 11:or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Words: 10:Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
Words: 12:collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
Words: 14:individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
Words: 15:located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
Words: 7:copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
Words: 13:works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
Words: 12:are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Words: 10:Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
Words: 11:freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
Words: 10:this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
Words: 13:the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
Words: 12:keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Words: 10:Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
Words: 14:what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
Words: 13:a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
Words: 13:the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
Words: 7:before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
Words: 11:creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Words: 8:Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
Words: 12:the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
Words: 1:States.
Words: 0:
Words: 10:1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:
Words: 0:
Words: 11:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
Words: 10:access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
Words: 13:whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
Words: 10:phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Words: 8:Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
Words: 3:copied or distributed:
Words: 0:
Words: 14:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
Words: 12:almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
Words: 11:re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
Words: 7:with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net
Words: 0:
Words: 10:1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
Words: 13:from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
Words: 12:posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
Words: 12:and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
Words: 12:or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
Words: 11:with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
Words: 11:work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
Words: 13:through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Words: 10:Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
Words: 1:1.E.9.
Words: 0:
Words: 10:1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
Words: 11:with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
Words: 11:must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
Words: 11:terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
Words: 11:to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
Words: 12:permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
Words: 13:License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
Words: 9:work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.
Words: 0:
Words: 10:1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
Words: 10:electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
Words: 10:prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
Words: 12:active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Words: 2:Gutenberg-tm License.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
Words: 9:compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
Words: 12:word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
Words: 12:distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
Words: 11:"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
Words: 9:posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
Words: 14:you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
Words: 15:copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
Words: 12:request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
Words: 10:form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
Words: 6:License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
Words: 8:performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
Words: 8:unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
Words: 9:access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
Words: 1:that
Words: 0:
Words: 15:- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
Words: 10:     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
Words: 11:     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
Words: 11:     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
Words: 10:     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
Words: 7:     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
Words: 12:     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
Words: 10:     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
Words: 10:     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
Words: 10:     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
Words: 9:     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
Words: 6:     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."
Words: 0:
Words: 15:- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
Words: 13:     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
Words: 11:     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
Words: 10:     License.  You must require such a user to return or
Words: 11:     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
Words: 12:     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
Words: 3:     Project Gutenberg-tm works.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
Words: 14:     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
Words: 11:     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
Words: 5:     of receipt of the work.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
Words: 5:     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.
Words: 0:
Words: 13:1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
Words: 12:electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
Words: 11:forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
Words: 9:both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Words: 10:Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Words: 8:Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.
Words: 0:
Words: 1:1.F.
Words: 0:
Words: 8:1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
Words: 10:effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
Words: 8:public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
Words: 7:collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
Words: 12:works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
Words: 10:"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
Words: 9:corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
Words: 11:property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
Words: 12:computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
Words: 2:your equipment.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
Words: 10:of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Words: 9:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Words: 9:Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Words: 8:Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
Words: 10:liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
Words: 11:fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
Words: 10:LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
Words: 10:PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
Words: 11:TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
Words: 10:LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
Words: 12:INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
Words: 1:DAMAGE.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
Words: 13:defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
Words: 15:receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
Words: 12:written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
Words: 13:received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
Words: 11:your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
Words: 14:the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
Words: 11:refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
Words: 13:providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
Words: 13:receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
Words: 12:is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
Words: 5:opportunities to fix the problem.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
Words: 13:in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHER
Words: 12:WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
Words: 8:WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
Words: 0:
Words: 10:1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
Words: 11:warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
Words: 12:If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
Words: 12:law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
Words: 10:interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
Words: 10:the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
Words: 10:provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.
Words: 0:
Words: 12:1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
Words: 10:trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
Words: 9:providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
Words: 10:with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
Words: 8:promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
Words: 10:harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
Words: 13:that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
Words: 12:or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
Words: 10:work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Words: 9:Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 9:Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm
Words: 0:
Words: 9:Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
Words: 11:electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
Words: 9:including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
Words: 11:because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
Words: 6:people in all walks of life.
Words: 0:
Words: 9:Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
Words: 9:assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
Words: 9:goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
Words: 11:remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Words: 10:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
Words: 9:and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
Words: 10:To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
Words: 13:and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
Words: 7:and the Foundation web page at http://www.gutenberg.net/fundraising/pglaf.
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 9:Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Words: 1:Foundation
Words: 0:
Words: 10:The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
Words: 9:501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
Words: 11:state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Words: 9:Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
Words: 8:number is 64-6221541.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Words: 10:Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
Words: 9:permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Words: 10:Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
Words: 9:throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
Words: 12:809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
Words: 9:business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
Words: 11:information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
Words: 3:page at http://www.gutenberg.net/about/contact
Words: 0:
Words: 4:For additional contact information:
Words: 4:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
Words: 4:     Chief Executive and Director
Words: 1:     gbnewby@pglaf.org
Words: 0:
Words: 9:Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Words: 3:Literary Archive Foundation
Words: 0:
Words: 9:Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
Words: 11:spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
Words: 12:increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
Words: 10:freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
Words: 9:array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
Words: 10:($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
Words: 4:status with the IRS.
Words: 0:
Words: 10:The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
Words: 11:charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
Words: 10:States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
Words: 12:considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
Words: 10:with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
Words: 10:where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
Words: 10:SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
Words: 4:particular state visit http://www.gutenberg.net/fundraising/donate
Words: 0:
Words: 12:While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
Words: 11:have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
Words: 10:against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
Words: 6:approach us with offers to donate.
Words: 0:
Words: 9:International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
Words: 9:any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
Words: 11:outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.
Words: 0:
Words: 10:Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
Words: 11:methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
Words: 9:ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
Words: 5:donations.  To donate, please visit:
Words: 1:http://www.gutenberg.net/fundraising/donate
Words: 0:
Words: 0:
Words: 8:Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
Words: 1:works.
Words: 0:
Words: 11:Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
Words: 12:concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
Words: 10:with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Words: 10:Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.
Words: 0:
Words: 9:Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
Words: 12:editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
Words: 11:unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
Words: 9:keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.
Words: 0:
Words: 14:Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:
Words: 0:
Words: 1:     http://www.gutenberg.net
Words: 0:
Words: 8:This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
Words: 10:including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Words: 12:Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
Words: 10:subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.